This is why we have resubmitted the amendment on this topic.
Only the clear demarcation of the Union' s tasks is a basis for a correct distribution of power.
The policy should be drafted as closely to Europe' s citizens as possible.
We welcome a broad IGC agenda, although it is difficult to tie up the loose ends of Amsterdam.
The right of veto for matters which affect national sovereignty remains necessary.
We find it unacceptable that enlargement would be postponed because the Union has not put its own house in order.
This enlargement is the very reason why a dynamic approach should be adopted.
We do not deem it necessary for there to be a proposal from the Commission for the IGC agenda; they have more than enough to deal with.
Following consultation with the Commission, it is up to the Council to draft this agenda and to make its own preparations.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office Mr Sasi for the comments he made earlier on during this debate.
Firstly, he confirmed the continued cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament and his forthcoming visit to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
But he also confirmed that in the IGC enlargement would remain at the core, at the heart of the envisaged Treaty reforms and, secondly, that the timetable would be adhered to.
I believe both of those are important aspects.
First of all, on enlargement, we are talking here about enlargement of a very different scale and nature to anything that has happened before, and that has implications for the nature of the IGC which prepares for it.
We are talking in the main about countries from Central and Eastern Europe which have enjoyed, as we all know, 40 years of dictatorship when civil society was emasculated, driven underground and destroyed.
Although ten years have elapsed and great strides have now been made, I believe that a good deal of confidence-building is still required and that we need the openness that many of us have called for in the preparation and the implementation of these reforms.
As the IGC takes place there are two aspects, therefore, that we in the European Parliament should remember.
One is that in the past, IGCs have not prepared public opinion until the Treaty reforms had actually been agreed, particularly in reference to Maastricht.
This had unfortunate consequences in a number of Member States.
I believe we should learn the lessons from that mistake of the past and realise that the importance of this particular enlargement, the re-uniting of the European family, is something which our public at home needs to be made aware of while the IGC is actually taking place.
And I believe that openness should also extend to the applicant countries themselves.
It would be most unfortunate if we as the institutions of the EU saw this merely as a bureaucratic or a constitutional exercise to our own interest and our own advantage.
It is specifically for the purpose of enlargement that openness is necessary.
Therefore I believe that, where possible, not only should our own domestic public opinion be engaged at all stages but also the public opinion of the applicant countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
I appreciate that that is a break in tradition from the nature of a governmental conference as we understood it in the past.
But as I say, this is a very different type of IGC and therefore we have to be imaginative in the way that we present ourselves to the public.
Mr President, this report has won the consensus of a large majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
In my opinion, this is a significant confirmation of those shared Europeanist objectives that have, in the past, characterised the European Parliament in its relations with the other Community institutions, with national parliaments and public opinion.
We have played - and we have shown that we wish to continue playing - an important part in supporting the process of European integration, and its continual and coherent development.
The political tensions that characterised the start of this parliamentary term are therefore not obstructing the necessary agreements between various, important - the most important - parliamentary groups on the subject of consolidating the Union, its institutions and its policies.
It is important to agree, at this time, on the proposal that must be drawn up on the reform of the Treaties, on the convening of the new Intergovernmental Conference and on the drawing up of the agenda and the method.
The positions taken in the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report have been supported by those in the communications by President Prodi and Mr Barnier on behalf of the European Commission, explained to Parliament the day after the vote in our committee.
This is now a sure point, which everyone must take into account: Parliament and the Commission are moving in the same direction and are equally convinced that the Intergovernmental Conference must not restrict itself to a limited horizon, simplified guidelines or a minimal agenda.
The wide-ranging discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs showed that Parliament is concerned with being, at the same time, far-sighted and realistic, demanding and practical.
We should stop seeing Parliament as if it were advancing goodness knows what dangerous demands and impossible requests.
Our proposals are not a reflection of an abstract scheme and are not a luxury, but reflect objective, inescapable requirements for a comprehensive reform of the institutions of the Union.
We need to go beyond Amsterdam and look further in order to be able to realise the historic commitment to enlarging eastwards, and to guarantee further progress in the integration process that is working against the risks of dilution and stagnation.
No one can overlook the problems of strengthening the political side of Europe and institutional change but, in addition to this, we have had to deal with the launch of the euro and the European Central Bank, the lesson to be learnt from Kosovo, the widespread aspiration for a guaranteed area of security and justice and the disenchantment of too many European voters.
This is an appeal we are making, in particular, to governments and national parliaments, with whose assistance we must build a stronger, more united and more democratic Europe.
Mr President, thank you for having given me the floor for a few moments at this point in the debate during which I have been able to listen closely to the rapporteurs whom I had already heard, but also to the representatives and the speakers of the different groups that sit in Parliament, that is to say, many of you.
I hope that the speakers I will not be able to hear due to the way this debate has been re-organised as well as to the constraints of my own schedule, will forgive me.
I can only promise them that I shall remain attentive to what is said throughout the debate today and of course later.
Honourable Members, Mr President, institutional reform is not a political project.
It is a tool.
Our project, as many of you have said, and it underlies our thoughts today, is the uniting of the peoples of European States in a political, economic, social and cultural Community.
The great political project for the very start of the next century is therefore the welcoming of many new Members.
This is why the distinction made in Amsterdam between limited adjustment, minor enlargement and a broader reform is already an outdated distinction.
You are already aware of the Commission' s contribution to the preparation for this Conference.
I am delighted today, as was President Prodi, to see the contribution your Parliament has made and to note, and I would like to thank your two rapporteurs, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen most sincerely for this, a broad convergence of views, at this stage, between our two institutions.
And I think that this convergence of views is a major trump card that we should hold on to both in terms of the issues at stake in the reform and of the working method that we should adopt.
I would like to say a few words about the issues involved in this reform.
As your two rapporteurs so aptly emphasised, this forthcoming Conference must concentrate on institutional issues, on all institutional issues with the notable and politically necessary exception of the discussions currently taking place on a European security and defence policy.
I think that if institutional reforms are to succeed, they must be placed, and I say this to you, bearing in mind my experience of the last negotiations, in a broader political perspective, and they must together attempt to provide an answer to the fundamental question, "How should we speak to each other?
How should we work?
How should we move forward and take decisions in a Union which will contain 27 countries?"
Because that is what there will be around the table. And that is the only question that we should be asking as we seek answers, all the answers, whichever institutions and processes are affected by seeking this answer.
The first issue that we have identified together is that of functioning well when there is a large number of states.
Just now, I heard the President-in-Office of the Council mention enlargement which, he said, means "change" .
And, in direct response, I shall reply to him that what we are dealing with is a major enlargement, not a minor adjustment.
And we must respond to this major enlargement with real reform which must first, therefore, address the decision-making process.
This is why I believe that the majority of us will agree on making it clear that qualified majority voting within the Council should become the rule, with exceptions limited to a few fundamental and very sensitive issues.
As many of you wanted us to, we have also put it in writing that where an issue of a legislative nature is concerned, the qualified majority must be linked to a codecision procedure between the Council and the European Parliament.
The second issue is that of developing the Treaties.
I mentioned this idea during my hearing in your Parliament.
It has been taken up and stressed in the report by Jean-Luc Dehaene, President von Weizsäcker and Lord Simon and it merits being dealt with in more depth.
It consists in fact of reorganising the Treaties by separating the basic texts on the one hand and the implementing provisions on the other.
This reorganisation would allow the Treaties to continue to develop because the implementing provisions could, if necessary, one day be amended by a simplified procedure.
I think that this new revision procedure could contribute towards linking the European Parliament more closely with the revision of the Treaties.
I would like to say however that I do not think that this reorganisation should lead to a change in the Union' s or the Community' s current competences.
Another point is the representation of the States in the Council.
The decisions of the Council should be more representative of the relative weight that the Union' s different Member States carry.
Whilst respecting the spirit and the balance of the Treaty of Rome, decision making itself should also be made easier.
And then there are the other institutions.
With enlargement, we will have to define the number of elected representatives from each State within your Parliament.
The Commission, with its power to issue guidelines, the new authority conferred on its President, will have to preserve - I hope you do not mind if I say that it will not be easy, now that I am a Member of the Commission - its collegial character, its efficiency, and its decision-making process which requires a simple majority of its Members.
The Court of Justice or the Court of Auditors will have to adapt to enlargement.
By mentioning all of these institutions, I am attempting to show that there are many answers to the fundamental question that I raised just now, that is, how we will work when there are 27 of us, and these are answers that must be looked into at this Intergovernmental Conference.
The functioning of the institutions does not necessarily imply a revision of the Treaties.
In their daily work, there are important reforms of internal structures for the European Parliament, for the Commission and especially for the Council, which must be implemented before enlargement.
The second major issue, Mr President, is to prevent the risk of dilution; the risk of dispersion that enlargement entails for us all.
I repeat that when a risk presents itself, it can either be overcome, accepted as if it were inevitable, or prevented.
We hope to prevent this risk of dispersion.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has established the legitimacy of certain forms of cooperation between Member States within the Union' s institutional framework in order to move beyond the level of integration that has already been achieved.
On behalf of the Commission, I shall say quite clearly that the acquis must, under no circumstances, be considered to be a form of strengthened cooperation between the Fifteen Member States.
The objective is really to improve the current conditions of strengthened cooperation and to make them easier.
If we do not achieve this at this Conference, the current right of veto would only encourage the States that would like to achieve a deeper level of cooperation between themselves not to do it within the Community framework but to do it more and more outside this framework.
In order to strengthen the Union' s coherence, the Commission, like your Parliament, hopes that the question of the Union' s external representation will also be raised.
The third issue is that of continuing the political construction of Europe and, when the moment comes, we will then have to accept the consequences for the institutions of the work in progress on the Common Security and Defence Policy.
We are not forgetting that there is also the question of the way the Charter of Fundamental Rights relates to the Treaty.
I would like to bring this intervention to a close by thanking you for your attention and by mentioning the preparations for the negotiations.
Our objective is to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion and to achieve this before the end of the year 2000 with significant results.
Our objective is not to delay enlargement but to accomplish it successfully.
This is why we hope that the procedure laid down by the Treaty, in Article 48, is implemented as soon as possible after Helsinki.
I would also like to express our agreement to the involvement of the European Parliament taking place in the best possible conditions, with greater participation than there was, as I can testify, when we were preparing for Amsterdam.
I would finally like to say that this reform throughout the year 2000 must provide the opportunity for genuine public debate between us, the institutions, but also with national parliaments and with our citizens.
It is our place, and indeed my own, to see to it that we take part in this public debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is convinced that powerful institutional reform, adapted to the requirements of enlargement, can be achieved before the end of 2000.
We know that the Union will emerge from this enlargement completely transformed.
It must not emerge from it weakened.
But we will only succeed if this reform is achieved with sufficient ambition and political will, which means that many of us will have to give priority to the long-term vision over caution or national interests.
Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order.
I heard Commissioner Barnier say that he is intending to leave, that he needs to go early because he has other commitments.
Can I just say that I was minister in my own country for five years but not a single minister in our parliament would have considered walking out on a debate where spokespersons were still waiting to speak.
Mrs de Palacio, who is responsible for relations with Parliament, has also promised - at least in our Group - that Commissioners will remain present in all debates from now on.
The last speakers are just as important as the first ones. They may even have more voters behind them than the first ones.
I urge Mr Barnier to respect Parliament and to stay.
Otherwise I would ask you to write to Mr Prodi to observe the agreements with Mrs de Palacio.
Thank you very much, Mrs Maij-Weggen.
In any event, the Commissioner has said that he will be with us until eight o' clock.
Mr President, the report by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen does not take adequate account of the fact that the European Union is fast taking on pan-European proportions.
A decision may be taken at the Helsinki Summit to expand talks to include twelve countries.
When official applicant country status is accorded to Turkey too, we may soon be receiving new applications for membership from the Balkans region and elsewhere.
In the plenary part-session in October, I said that the conflict between EU expansion and deepening could only be solved by the internal reorganisation of the Union on the onion skin model, or a system of concentric circles.
I proposed that the whole Union should develop as an association of states, but its core should develop into a full-fledged federation.
I proposed that the outer circle of cooperation and integration would be the European Council, to which we could give new duties.
I am glad that this idea of mine has met with a positive response in principle.
It has not had time, however, to be reflected in the amendments that our Group has tabled for this report.
For my own part, I cannot support the report by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen.
It is an attempt to continue to develop the Union into a federation, and it in no way takes account of how the robust enlargement process should influence the Union' s institutional development.
Mr President, one of the founders of the current European Union said that, if they were to begin European construction again, they would start this time with a consideration of the people and their cultures.
But the European Union, far from rectifying the situation, seems to abide by the theory expounded by Livy, that is to say, it forgets what has happened and therefore can complain but cannot put anything right.
In the texts which have been proposed for the reform of the Treaties and the next IGC, not even with the most powerful magnifying glass can we find a sentence which refers to the European peoples and regions and the role that they should play in the Europe of the future.
It is time for the regional question to occupy the place that it deserves.
The European parties which are stuck in the past have shown that they are incapable of overcoming the short-sightedness which makes them blind to the internal national and regional realities of the current Member States.
When will we talk about nations such as Scotland, Wales, Galicia, Catalonia and the Basque country, which are not even allowed to sit together with the Governments on the Council?
What is going to be done about regions such as Andalucia - with 7.5 million inhabitants - which is treated like a second class country, while representatives of Member States which are a twentieth the size sit in the Council?
New countries are going to join the Union, some of which are very small and we are in favour of their accession, but if it were not for their recent emancipation, they would not be candidates for Membership.
The accession of these new countries, Mr President, will mean the under-representation of internal nations and regions of the current States.
García Márquez said that wisdom comes when we no longer have any use for it.
Let us hope that this is not the case with our political vision and sensitivity towards the role of the nations and regions of Europe!
Mr President, in this debate on the agenda and procedures for the upcoming IGC, I would first of all like to express that I, like the rapporteur, would advocate taking a wider approach, at least wider than proposed at the Cologne Summit.
The reasons have been spelt out loud and clear.
During this Summit, the accession, in the short-term, of four or five countries from Central and Eastern Europe was discussed. This number has since grown to ten or twelve.
This has the immediate effect that a root-and-branch reform should be undertaken and this is more than a few institutional reforms.
As far as I can see, there are six points to this argument.
Firstly, there are the institutional reforms as planned in Cologne, the make-up of the Commission, one Commissioner per Member State as far as we are concerned, the weighting of votes, which should be proportionate to the size of population and qualified majority voting.
This should encompass the budget but also agriculture and legislation.
Secondly, there is the integration of the second and third pillars, more integration in the Treaties.
In order to achieve this, more of a Community approach needs to be adopted.
Thirdly, the new Treaty should contain a sound legal basis for a European regulation on the openness of government and transparency.
Fourthly, we also need a legal basis for the European Union itself so that we can act autonomously in bodies such as the United Nations and the WTO.
And I agree with those who say that the constitutional aspects in the Treaty should be separated from those components relating to the executive.
I think this is a sound line to take.
Finally, this Charter of Fundamental Rights, to be laid down in future, should be embedded in the new Treaty.
These seem to me to be the salient points.
As for the procedure, our most important wish is, of course, maximum involvement of Parliament.
Two MEPs seems just fine but they will need to be able to play a full part.
We give our full backing to the reports of Mr Leinen and Mr Dimitrakopoulos.
They did a marvellous job and let us hope that the summit in Helsinki will indeed decide to incorporate the wider agenda we are proposing in the IGC
Mr President, in our debate on the mandate for the forthcoming IGC, I would firstly like to say a few words on an issue which is not on this Conference' s agenda but that, I think, our Chamber will have to consider, when the day comes, in order to study and evaluate the results of the whole exercise.
This is the issue of the reform of the Council, of the whole package of reforms which, we have been told, must and can take place in addition to a reform of the Treaties.
Fine.
Let us set out on this path, but let us do so with a reasonable timetable that is the same timetable that the IGC has.
My group has tabled an amendment to this effect and I hope that, tomorrow, our Chamber will be able to vote for it.
With regard to the three "left-over" questions, do we think today that we are in a position to answer the question to which the Amsterdam Summit could not find a solution? What is this question?
We must have the courage to ask it.
It is perhaps less a question of how to function than of what it is that we want to do together when there are sixteen or twenty-seven of us.
If we do not answer this question, we will not find a solution to the three questions "left over" from Amsterdam.
At any event, preparing the Union for the forthcoming enlargement opens up a question outstanding from Amsterdam, and that is the question of strengthened cooperation.
Because, apart from the three institutional questions, which are already part of the IGC' s mandate, nobody in the context of the Amsterdam assessment has been able to tell us if the solutions that we had arrived at concerning the operation of this strengthened cooperation were satisfactory.
We must work towards a reform of this strengthened cooperation which will allow the Union to establish a real vanguard, open within the Union, in order to continue to make progress towards the security, democracy and stability of our continent.
Mr President, you will not believe this, but exactly 200 years ago, namely in 1799, there was the first discussion of a constitution, not for Europe but for Bavaria.
This was partly for the purpose of establishing responsibilities but also because of the radical shifts in territory due to an almost 83 per cent increase in the area of Bavaria.
The person with the big idea of having a constitution was the then Bavarian prime minister, Graf Montgelas, who did himself great credit by establishing a French administration in Bavaria.
However, he was at the same time also the fiercest opponent of a parliament, because this could supposedly introduce unpredictable factors into politics.
The arguments for and against went on for a further 18 years until at last the constitution was established and its opponents were finally quashed.
And there were then already democratic elements in this constitution.
Now, something else that is astonishing: the basis of the constitution was, at that time, a preamble which was drafted in 1799 and which was to set out the fundamental rights, and all this 200 years ago!
I think the parallels between then and now are quite amazing.
History shows that the doubters' arguments, both then and now, are almost the same.
Let us learn from history not to allow further decades to go by before Europe has a constitution.
This is something for the future that we must prepare for.
I should therefore like to encourage the Council not only to respect Parliament' s proposals but also to make them its own.
We need a Europe which is able to act and which can also take necessary decisions.
For we must also take democracy seriously, and the responsibilities which the national parliaments have given away must pass into the hands of the European Parliament, that is to say become part of the process of codecision making.
We need codecision making by the European Parliament, for the European Parliament is the biggest factor favouring the integration of Europe.
Mr President, we already know about some of the issues that will be discussed at the forthcoming WTO negotiations: they are the so-called "left-overs" from Amsterdam.
However, at the moment, we are not fully aware of what issues will feature at the start of the forthcoming IGC and these are issues that must be discussed, particularly with a view to achieving efficiency and with a view to an enlargement that it is thought will happen and which is greatly desired.
I would like to say here that reforming a Treaty with a view to achieving efficiency strikes me as a very unambitious exercise for the European project, and I fear that this exercise may be nothing but a power game which will allow a small group of countries to set themselves up as a board of directors and to lead and direct the European project.
A Europe led by a board of directors would be a negation of the stimulating process of European integration that we have had - it is true that it has its imperfections, but all countries have taken part in it - and, in our opinion, strengthened cooperation must be the exception and not the rule in the European Union. This is because often, the political will to cooperate exists, but the conditions are not right from the economic point of view or from some other point of view, in order to achieve this very will for strengthened cooperation.
Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me give you an example of this: if there were a change to the weighting of votes within the Council, which would mean that the countries with a higher population as well as the larger countries would in fact have more power, and if the extension of qualified majority voting, extended to the codecision procedure, meant that this tendency in the European Parliament also became more marked, my question is: what role will the European Union' s small or weak countries have in Europe?
I prefer cohesion to efficiency, and as Commissioner Barnier raised the issue a while ago of there being 27 of us in Europe, I would like to say, Commissioner, that I think that in the decisions of this Europe of 27, it is more important that all countries feel involved in the decision-making process, than discussing whether, when there are 27 of us, it will take us one hour, less than two hours or three hours to take decisions.
Cohesion is more important than efficiency if we are in fact to have a European Union with as cohesive and generous an enterprise as the one that we have seen and in which we have participated.
Mr President, the Ancient Roman jurisconsultants used to say that ex facto oritur jus (the law is formed from events).
I think that credit must be given to Messrs Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen for laying the first foundations of a new foedus (treaty), a kind of pact on European unity which is organised around differences and which attempts mediation and, in particular, to find basic principles and unities.
Europe still has a lot of work to do in order to build a democratic future.
However, some points have now been identified: a foreign and security policy needs to be a truly common one.
Indeed, I think that, in addition to banks, the economy and social and structural policies, the common foreign and security policy will be another driving factor towards true integration.
We need a European Parliament that is the general legislating body of the Union - like the Council - that participates fully in appointing members of the other institutions and is able to establish a relationship of trust with the European Commission, which is no longer weakened by the double qualified majority now necessary for a motion of censure.
We need a Council of Ministers that decides by a majority.
I think that other issues, such as the greater integration of the national parliaments in the Community' s decision-making process, are useless elements that just complicate matters.
Local regions and communities should also participate with more dignity at the stages of creation and implementation of Community law.
The part provided for by the provisions on the Structural Funds could become the basic principle for the new European construction.
The European Parliament must play a truly constituent part, and continue the spirit of Alcide De Gasperi, Schuman, Adenauer and Kohl to stay in the tradition of a people' s Europe - but it has had important supporters in other political families as well, such as Altiero Spinelli, François Mitterrand and Henry Spaak.
We are approaching a time that will be decisive for Europe' s survival as an entity and as a model.
The attacks are no longer military, but economic and political, and the adversaries are no longer those of the Cold War.
If we want to equip ourselves in order to overcome the challenge of the new millennium, then we will have to equip ourselves with the necessary legal and institutional instruments, in the belief that Europe will remain Europe only if it is prepared to carry out self-examination and accept this giant leap towards the future.
Mr President, we are preparing to vote on the European Parliament' s first resolution on one of the great issues of the present legislature: the IGC in 2000.
In accordance with the Treaty, the principal players at this Conference will be the governments of Member States and then the national parliaments.
But the other institutions, the European Parliament and the Commission will not, for all that, be resigned to the role of mere onlookers.
Parliament, by means of its resolutions or through its two representatives at the Conference, will have to lead the project in an ambitious direction.
This influence will only meet with success if the European Parliament concentrates on the essential points, "the priorities" , and if it deliberately refrains from presenting a long wish list of points which are as unrealistic as they are unlimited.
Our two rapporteurs have attempted to avoid this trap, although I must say that they have not entirely succeeded.
As we are developing in the constitutional area and as the Treaty represents the highest standard of our internal laws, in the future, we will have to force ourselves to be more precise in terms of the law.
A constitution cannot be produced on the spur of the moment.
For example, when, on the issue of qualified majority voting, we have to say precisely to which articles of the Treaty the general rule is to apply and for which ones exceptions can be made, you will realise that the current Treaty leaves very little room for manoeuvre.
That is why, once we know the European Council' s mandate, we will have to go back to this document and make improvements to it.
As the President of our Committee, Mr Napolitano, pointed out, it is not a question of dividing ourselves into extremists and reactionaries, but of being perfectionists, whilst remaining progressive as far as the future development of the European Union is concerned
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that this forthcoming summit can undoubtedly be a success if the factors stemming from Parliament' s debates and which are written down in this report are in fact taken account of.
I should like here to seize quite specifically upon one particular point.
I was particularly pleased to see that the report has dealt not only with the reform of the treaties and of procedures, and therefore was not just worded in general terms, but has in the last analysis declared itself in favour of setting and specifying priorities to the effect, for example, that progress must be achieved in the interests of the security of Europe and its citizens in connection with the further development of the area of freedom, security and justice, and that relevant procedures must be established so that this becomes a reality.
In that way, citizens will be given a signal and main focus.
In the report, a goal is also formulated which I consider to be particularly important, namely that Europe must be seen by its citizens to be transparent and to be conducting a more open debate.
This, too, I consider to be absolutely necessary, as well as being a good opportunity, especially in connection with the development of the area of freedom, security and justice.
We can show here that, in circumstances where the Member States are at their wits' end, Europe can, in the last analysis, be helpful to the individual.
If it is a fact of life that organised crime earns billions which, by being introduced into the legal economic cycle, damages our legitimate systems, indeed society as a whole, then we need Europol and we need European cooperation in the field of justice.
If the drug trade already constitutes 8% of the volume of trade worldwide, then we must develop Europol as a European institution.
If 400,000 asylum seekers are already coming to Europe each year, then we need relevant European regulations.
By that, I mean that this report addresses something very real and contains elements which signify a genuine opportunity for the Helsinki Summit.
We shall see whether, at this summit, Europe' s representatives can in actual fact avail themselves, in the interests of our citizens, of this chance to create more transparency and more opportunities for the individual.
We can only hope so.
Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mr Leinen, explained very effectively, there are many of us who think that the Intergovernmental Conference should begin a genuine constitutionalisation process for the European Union.
In that way we would surely be in a position to deal with the circumstances, with the real demands and we would be able to respond to the challenge of restoring the citizens' interest in the European construction process, an interest which was statistically proven to be low after the poor turnout at the elections of 13 June.
To accompany the undeniable success of Monetary Union, we must also make progress with Political Union and in fields which broaden the competences of the European Union in order to prevent the current imbalances; I would describe these imbalances as enormous.
There is no doubt that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference must go much further than the fine words of Amsterdam, even though they are very important.
I talked before of constitutionalisation and, personally, I believe in a federal perspective.
The Treaties should also include that Charter of Fundamental Rights which is to be drawn up in the coming months; lay down majority decision making - as a general rule - and, logically, and simultaneously, the codecision procedure. It should also increase the powers of the European Parliament, for example granting it the power to ratify all the international treaties, whatever their type or nature may be, and, of course, ensure that the coming reforms are carried out according to a method which is much more open, transparent, democratic and participatory than the current one.
However, when we talk about methods and institutions, we must not forget politics.
For example, we must integrate the functions of the Western European Union into the Union in order to prevent new Kosovos, but we must also promote the coordination of economic policies, fiscal harmonisation and the creation of employment and a genuine social Europe which will allow us to confront the concerns of the citizens.
The current method is rather worn out but, in any case, it is essential that the Council commits itself to taking appropriate account of the proposals which the Commission and the Parliament make in turn.
Mr President, the main themes are now generally known, and it is not only since the Dehaene report that everyone has been talking about them.
But, in addition to these main objectives, without whose attainment an enlargement of the European Union would scarcely be conceivable, a number of basic questions, relating naturally to policy on fisheries, ought not to be forgotten. With the Amsterdam Treaty, no satisfactory solution was found for the fisheries sector.
Firstly, I demand - as I also did in 1996 - that fisheries be mentioned specifically in the Treaties.
Fisheries must no longer be regarded as a mere appendage of agriculture.
The importance of fisheries as one of the few existing sectors for which there are Community policies must at last be emphasised by fisheries' being given their own chapter.
This chapter must state the goals of the common fisheries policy, its principles and, above all, the legal procedures governing its regulation.
Secondly, Parliament must be more thoroughly involved than it has been so far in defining the most important themes in the fisheries sphere.
I demand genuine decision-making powers in connection with the basic aspects of the common fisheries policy and the regulations governing, for example, market organisation, the preservation and management of stocks, supervisory regulations and the tools of structural policy; in other words, nothing less than codecision making by Parliament.
Thirdly, it is also necessary in the field of international politics to strengthen the role of Parliament and to introduce the procedure for agreeing to the conclusion of all international fisheries agreements.
My final point is that Parliament' s participation is also to be desired at meetings of bodies forming part of international organisations.
The points mentioned, which take account of the importance of fisheries in Europe, must therefore be picked out as central themes at the next Intergovernmental Conference when the role of Parliament is being considered.
Happily, I have just heard from Giorgos that a compromise Amendment is being submitted which also refers to the subject of fisheries.
Thank you for that.
I trust that the House will support this.
Mr President, thanks are due to the two rapporteurs.
Finland' s Portugal' s and France' s Presidencies of the Council are to be requested to comply with the proposals in this report which is quite rightly based upon the criticism, partly by this European Parliament, of the decisions in Amsterdam.
For no other reason than that Mr Tsatsos has again referred to the matter, I should like to emphasise that the proposal in subparagraph 5 is really of central importance.
It is important that we obtain a package proposal for global reform in which the important questions relating to majority voting are dealt with just as much as those relating to reform of the institutions and other important themes.
I think that the most important thing here is that we consider how the European Union might be provided with a constitution.
This demand can hardly be emphasised enough, for Europe can only come of age when it provides itself with a constitution.
The purposes and goals of the European Union are too unclear at the moment.
The European Parliament has quite rightly already submitted several draft constitutions, and I think that these ought to make it clear that Europe is more than a market.
We must therefore be thinking in terms of a Brussels Republic, a unique community of States without historical precedent.
Whether the discussion of a European constitution will imbue Europe' s citizens with more enthusiasm for Europe is unclear.
On account of the problems entailed in legitimising an area or a market without the structure of a State, the attempt does need, however, to be made to inspire such enthusiasm. This must also go hand in hand with the development of a European civil society and of a European public.
We are seeing a change worldwide in the essential character of national sovereignty because States do not have unlimited freedom of action, either at home or abroad, and their ability to form policies and solve problems is limited by the realities of international relations and of trans-national forms of interdependence and interaction.
This is particularly apparent in connection with the economy, trade and competition.
It is precisely in this area, too, that it is very important to move from the principle of unanimity to majority voting.
The European Union must become better able to act and it therefore needs a new separation of powers through a catalogue of competences.
In view of the changed circumstances, a new system for the separation of powers must be devised which augments the classical separation of powers as prescribed by Montesquieu with a new form of separation of powers at different levels.
We need integrated multi-level decision-making processes.
The coordination processes at present prescribed are inadequate to the task of organising European added value.
That is particularly clear from the difficulties between economic union and monetary union and the difficulties between the political union and the economic and monetary union.
Since we cannot boost democracy, through interinstitutional agreements in this area, we also, in fact, require a revision of the Treaty in this regard.
Mr President, the Dehaene report contains a proposal of historic importance, namely the division of the Treaties into two parts: a part concerned with fundamental rights and the institutions which, as hitherto, can only be changed through the unanimous decision of the Intergovernmental Conference and through a procedure of ratification by the Member States; and a special part for specific policy areas which, instead of ratification, would require the agreement of the European Parliament.
In view of the fact that the Commission - and I am very grateful to Mr Barnier for this - has accepted in its proposals a division of this kind for the Amendment procedures too, it would appear faint-hearted if now Parliament' s Committee on Constitutional Affairs were to accept the two-fold division but not the distinction between the procedures.
It is also necessary to introduce different procedures because, following enlargement, the European Union would otherwise lose its ability to act.
To that extent, I would thank rapporteur Leinen for his remark on this subject, but I cannot unfortunately find it in his report.
I am in favour of introducing such a two-fold division of procedures, but only under a specific condition.
It must be guaranteed that the abolition of the ratification procedure for specified areas of policy would not entail any weakening of the rights of the Member States and that the European Union would not acquire for itself a right to extend its powers at the expense of the constituent Member States.
This can be guaranteed by means of a motion submitted by a number of colleagues and myself in which we conclude and demand that a catalogue of competences be incorporated into the basic part of the Treaty, clearly defining the competences of the European Union, clearly limiting those competences as well as encouraging application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Only in this way can the European Union, without at the same time eroding the rights of the Member States, become more able to act and efficiently limit its work to specified policy areas.
I would therefore particularly ask the rapporteurs - partly in order to ensure that their report obtains a broad majority in the House - to examine these two motions sympathetically.
Mr President, this debate has shown that a lot more would be necessary than we have incorporated into our report.
Budget policy, trade policy, tax policy and competition policy have been mentioned.
Everywhere, in fact, there is a need for reform; to that extent, Parliament was very focused.
I nonetheless think that we ought to be as ambitious as the Commission and carry out a further two improvements tomorrow.
The latter I am happy to take up - a duly facilitated revision of the second part of the newly divided Treaties and also a clause concerning strengthened cooperation in a Europe with 27 or 30 States.
I also hope that this will obtain a majority in the House tomorrow.
Lastly, I should like to thank the Commission whose demands are almost identical with those of Parliament.
Now, it is a question of conducting a public debate with the governments but also with the populations of Europe so that we might also implement the results at the Intergovernmental Conference in the year 2000.
I would like to thank everybody who has contributed to this task.
Mr President, Mr Leinen, you now have the misfortune of having to speak between Mr von Boetticher and myself.
I would therefore take the liberty of again reminding you of one aspect of what Mr von Boetticher quite correctly pointed out here, namely that it is also a part of this package that a clear framework of competences of the European Union is to be laid down in the general, basic part of the Treaties.
Perhaps the same is true of yourself as it is of me: through the opening of accession negotiations with a further twelve potential Member States, the scales have, as it were, fallen from our eyes and we have seen what immense consequences and effects the enlargement is going to have on the European Union itself.
Basically, this is not a traditional accession of States.
With the union of twelve new and fifteen old Member States, we are, rather, facing the situation of a re-establishment of the Union.
The necessity of comprehensive reforms has therefore been emphasised quite rightly here.
I should just like to issue one warning.
We ought not now to be tempted to repeat the old demands which we have always made, but now under the banner of the enlargement of the Union, for that would basically prevent us from seeing that we must consider completely new visions of our European Union.
I should like briefly in this regard to consider one idea.
I am convinced that, with 27 Member States, it will be impossible for the European Union to be as active in the same breadth and depth as it is with the present fifteen Member States.
We must therefore also concentrate on the key competences of the European Union and, in this connection, consider in which areas it is indispensable for the European Union to be active.
I am certain that, with some good will, we can find a whole range of other areas where that is not the case.
I want to add one last remark.
I should not like here to associate myself with the general European chiding directed against centralism, but I should like to canvass for a comprehensive, honest critique of the European Union' s tasks so that we do not need to be afraid that our achievements will be jeopardised through enlargement.
Mr President, on closing this debate, this important debate, with an important and excellent report, what could be better than to talk of justice.
Until now, justice has been rather absent from the general debate.
I believe that all political communities are judged by the justice they provide.
The reality is that our justice system is not sufficient for the competences which have been transferred to the European institutions, the Community competences, especially the competences which have to be reviewed from a legal point of view.
Therefore I believe - and this should include the strict current mandate for the Conference with regard to the revision of the institutions in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam - that we have to deal with the necessary and thorough reform of our Court of Justice and our Court of First Instance and the reform of the appointment of judges - in which the Parliament should have a significant involvement - as well as the reform of the distribution of competences between the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance, so that citizens may have an accurate and clear idea of what this European justice, which is their direct form of justice, really is, and the reform, finally - and this is another chapter - of the actionability of the acts.
I will end by saying, Mr President, that all of this will become all the more necessary in view of the other great mandate, the launch of which will be the finishing touch of the Finnish Presidency - the excellent Finnish Presidency, whose many successes it is a great honour to recognise in this Chamber and which has been a turning point in the behaviour of the Council.
There is a "before and after" of the Finnish Presidency with regard to the daily treatment of this Parliament.
That other challenge is to launch the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
There is also a problem here between the Court of Luxembourg and the Court of Strasbourg.
Mr President, as I said at the beginning, a political community is judged by the justice it provides.
Let us be aware of this and let us deal with this reform.
Thank you very much, Mrs Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Mr President, I am delighted to make this point of order in the presence of the Commission and the Council, because the issue in question is particularly serious.
At 5 p.m. today, a text signed by Mr Barón Crespo and some of his accomplices requested that the debate on the Napolitano report that was due to take place at 7 p.m. should be postponed until tomorrow.
It was asked, in the form of a topical and urgent motion, that a debate tabled for 8 p.m. this evening should be postponed until tomorrow morning.
Kindly explain to us the reason for this urgency.
Furthermore, this request was formulated according to Rule 112 of our Rules of Procedure which refers back to article 60 whereas Mr Napolitano' s report, as it is quite clearly stated in the legal grounds of the aforementioned report, is a report which is covered by article 181, since it concerns the internal Rules of Procedure of our Parliament.
It is therefore not a legislative proposal or an assimilated text at all, as the justification made by Mr Barón Crespo claims.
Mr Barón Crespo has accustomed Parliament to his Stalinist methods, to this Soviet way of treating Parliament for fifteen years.
What we want, apart from any fundamental issue that we will address tomorrow, is to try to enlighten MEPs about a mistake that has been made, so that we do not continue to make this mistake.
We are driving ourselves into a dead end by flouting MEPs' prerogatives, by flouting the European Union' s history of parliamentarianism and that of all its Member States. And because we do not want to rectify mistakes that we made six months ago, we are prepared to institutionalise informing within our Parliament, which allows any assistant or official in Parliament to inform on someone because he suspects that so and so' s brother-in-law' s cousin may have committed fraud!
It is absolutely scandalous!
I request that this decision by Parliament be revoked.
It is unacceptable.
I request, in accordance with article 115, that the debate be included in the agenda 24 hours after the different versions have been made available to MEPs, that is, not before mid-day tomorrow.
I think that before Mr Dupuis gets so excited and starts making such exaggerated accusations he should first verify what has actually happened.
The fact is that the Napolitano report was not available in all the languages 24 hours before the debates and before the vote, as required by Rule 115.
In order, therefore, to safeguard the Rules of this House and the Rules governing every Member, to ensure that Members have the rights they enjoy under these Rules, the Socialist Group and the Liberal Group, with the support, as was announced earlier, of the EPP Group, requested that to make sure we were in conformity with our Rules, Rule 112 on urgent procedure should be applied.
This will be put to the House tomorrow morning to vote on.
It will be a sovereign decision of this House to decide whether we can apply urgent procedure to this report.
There is nothing undemocratic about that.
It respects the Rules of Procedure and it respects what the majority in this House wants.
A question I think one could ask is about the motives of those who have tried to filibuster this report from beginning to end, of those who have tried to block it, of those who have tried every trick in the book and everything in the rule book to try and have it postponed.
I wonder what it is that makes them fear OLAF having the right to verify that Members are conducting their affairs properly in this House.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to say that Mr Corbett' s intervention may have been a politically-motivated speech, but it did not refer to the Rules of Procedure either, except to answer Mr Dupuis.
I would like to say...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr Dell' Alba, you are not tabling a procedural motion.
Rule 112 must be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
Rule 112 refers to Rule 60.
Mr Corbett knows the Rules of Procedure too well not to know that this rule does not apply to modifications to the Rules of Procedure concerning the Treaties or the interinstitutional agreements.
I therefore support Mr Dupuis' request.
I suggest that we return tomorrow morning having considered Mr Dupuis' arguments and my own with the aim of deeming the request formulated by the three groups unacceptable.
Mistakes can happen.
By the way, the matter is obviously unacceptable because they are not basing their arguments on the Rules of Procedure but on a rather inappropriate interpretation of the rules governing Parliament.
The Presidency notes these procedural motions and the Bureau will decide accordingly.
Question Time (Council)
The next point on the agenda is Council question time (B5-0033/1999).
Question No 1 by (H-0548/99):
Subject: Rail route across the Pyrenees The route crossing the Pyrenees via the Aspe Valley and the Somport Pass has for several years been a subject of controversy within local communities and the public at large and the national authorities affected by the choice of mode.
The road link is being modernised and expanded even though there is still an old partly disused railway line linking France and Spain.
On account of various protests and environmental considerations, the road-works were halted, and the national authorities and the Commission began discussions and to reconsider the strategies in terms of modes, the idea being to treat the rail link as a future key trans-European network.
That notwithstanding, the road-works resumed in the valley on 13 September. The Union, however, is already financing a feasibility study on the rail route, and the programme of the Presidency-in-Office states that revitalisation of European railways must be treated as a priority.
Can the Presidency say why the road-works have resumed?
Has the Union entered into other financial commitments regarding the Aspe Valley route across the Pyrenees, apart from the above-mentioned study?
Will not the Presidency take steps with a view to coordinating the positions of the French and Spanish governments so as to permanently rule out any road development project, since that option would remove the future need for the rail route, especially where freight carriage was concerned?
Mr President, I would like to say to the honourable member that the Council does not have the information you are asking for.
Regarding this matter, I should point out that monitoring the trans-European transport network is within the competence of the Commission.
Under Article 18 of the decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the Trans-European Network, the Member States regularly provide the Commission with national plans and programmes drawn up to develop the Trans-European Network, particularly regarding projects concerning the common interest, as identified in this decision.
Mr President, thank you for your answer, but I do not find it very satisfactory because the Somport issue is ancient history.
I am therefore astonished that the Council is not up to date on this, given that several questions have already been asked on this subject.
I am equally astonished that you can speak of the trans-European Network whereas the Members concerned, France and Spain, do not consider this stretch of road to be part of the trans-European Network at all.
If it were the case, I would immediately request that a study of the impact of this matter be made.
I asked you this question because works have started again in Aspe valley.
These are huge works just to make a small bypass around the small village of Bedous.
They are having a considerable impact on the environment and we know very well that in the long run in France, the usual piecemeal approach will be adopted, like slicing a salami, and that tiny slice by tiny slice, we will end up with a motorway or a dual carriageway in the Aspe valley.
Today, then, I would like to see the Council ask what France' s real commitments are in this matter and what means for crossing the Pyrenees the authorities really want to put in place, and I am directing these words to the Finnish Presidency, which has committed itself to the rail crossing and which has spoken in favour of it.
If you do not mind, I suggest that you launch an initiative to promote alternative means of transport to the road transport in ecologically sensitive areas, otherwise we will continue to ask you this kind of question and we will only be able to say...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, firstly, I wish to repeat that this matter falls more within the competence of the Commission, and the Commission' s last question time was here in Parliament yesterday.
As the following question referred to a rail connection between France and Spain in the Pyrenees, I would, however, like to say that this rail connection is not at present part of the Trans-European Network, as approved by the European Parliament and the Council in 1996.
For that reason, financing may not come from the budget heading relating to the Trans-European Network.
This issue is of great interest to me, but since I am acting as President for the sitting, I am not going to allow a supplementary question.
Question No 2 by (H-0550/99):
Subject: Council's plans for combating drug abuse in the context of an area of freedom, security and justice During the Finnish Presidency, particular priority has been given to the area of freedom, security and justice.
Within that area, the fight against drugs is especially important in view of the scale of drug trafficking and the drastic social consequences of drug abuse for individuals and society.
Will the Council say what measures it envisages to combat drug abuse in giving priority to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice?
On the basis of the European Union' s strategy for the period 1995-1999, the European Council urged the institutions, in Vienna in December 1998, to further develop an integrated and well-balanced anti-drugs strategy for the period after 1999, taking account of the new opportunities provided by the Amsterdam Treaty.
The Commission subsequently submitted to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, its communication concerning the European Union' s action plan for combating drugs during the period 2000-2004.
On the basis of the guidelines from the European Council, the work carried out by the previous country to hold the Presidency, the communication from the Commission and the contributions which the Member States and different working parties within the Commission have made to the Commission's communication, we have drafted a proposal for the EU's drugs strategy for the period 2000-2004.
In so doing, we have taken account of the views of both the European Parliament and of the above-mentioned institutions and bodies.
This new anti-drugs strategy is needed now because the existing EU strategy will have run its course by the end of this year.
Through the Amsterdam Treaty, a great many new opportunities have arisen which must be examined and utilised, both in the area of protecting people' s health and in the areas of legal cooperation and of cooperation with the police and customs.
The purpose of this new strategy is to confirm that the EU' s fight against drugs in the future will be broad in scope.
The new strategy includes measures to reduce supply and demand, together with measures at an international level.
At the special meeting of the European Council in Tampere in October, on the subject of establishing an area of freedom, security and justice, the emphasis was partly upon the importance of an overarching approach to tackling the drugs problem.
New guidelines were also provided for future work in the fight against drugs.
The European Council encouraged the Council to adopt the EU' s anti-drugs strategy for the years 2000-2004 before the European Council in Helsinki.
The European Council in Tampere urged that, in accordance with the Treaty, joint research groups be established without delay as a first step in the fight against the drugs trade, trade in human beings and terrorism.
It was also considered that, with regard to national criminal law, efforts to come to agreements regarding joint definitions, sanctions and bases for prosecutions should, at the initial stage, focus upon a limited number of sectors of special significance, such as the illegal trade in drugs.
The decision made in Tampere concerning extended powers for Europol, together with intensified measures against money laundering, will contribute to the European Union' s fight against drugs.
I should like to begin by thanking the Council for its answer.
I asked this question quite a long time ago, in fact before the Tampere Summit.
I think that the questions concerning drugs were dealt with at the Tampere Summit in a useful, more integrated way and with a view to developing a future strategy, especially in regard to combating the drugs trade and adjacent areas such as money laundering.
I am satisfied with the answer and can only hope that the process we have now set in motion through the Tampere Summit will continue and result in concrete measures so that we might together be able to tackle criminal behaviour of this kind and the major problem constituted by the drugs trade.
There has not really been a question, but if Mr Sasi wishes to respond, he may do so.
Allow me to say just briefly that, as the Tampere Summit shows, the fight against the drugs trade is one of the priority areas of the European Union' s policy.
There is an extremely long list of objectives and fundamental features for the next plan of operations, covering the years 2000-2004.
I believe that, with these guidelines, very effective measures in this field of work can be produced fairly soon.
Europol, which you mentioned, is only an information collection and exchange centre.
Do you think that it should be given operational powers to follow drug traffickers moving across Europe?
This is a matter which is still being looked into.
However, it is at the same time a fact that cooperation between the police authorities and also between police, customs and legal authorities must be increased.
Clearly, the first step must be an exchange of information between the police authorities and via Europol.
I believe however that, in the future, we are going to see a development of the kind which the Member predicts in his question.
Question No 3 by (H-0557/99):
Subject: Appropriateness of financing UNDCP programmes The UNDCP has published the results of an annual survey of opium production, which show that estimated total raw opium production in Afghanistan has more than doubled in a year, rising from 2,100 tonnes in 1998 to 4,600 tonnes in 1999.
The area devoted to opium cultivation has increased by 43%, from 64,000 to 91,000 hectares.
97% of opium production in 1999 is in areas under Taleban control and the number of Afghan districts where it is grown has risen from 73 to 104.
Global opium production has increased from 3,750 tonnes to 6,000 tonnes B an increase of 60%.
For some years the UNDCP has been engaged in costly intensive programmes to eradicate the cultivation of opium poppies in Afghanistan, which are directly managed by the Taleban, who are known for the violent and segregationist system they have forced on the country.
The EU budget provides funding for the UNDCP and its programmes, including the one involving Afghanistan.
Does the Council not consider that the EU should suspend its support, including financial support, for the >Taleban project= and carry out a thorough investigation into the effectiveness and management of the funds by the UNDCP?
Does the Council not consider that the use of EU funds by the UNDCP for programmes carried out by regimes which do not respect even minimum human rights constitutes a serious infringement of the principle of conditionality which inspires EU action?

Mr President, the European Union is very concerned about drugs production in Afghanistan. Its direct and indirect effect extends geographically far and wide.
The country to hold the Presidency has decided that close monitoring of the situation in Iran and Afghanistan will be the focus point of the action it takes on drugs.
The negative effects on civil society, for example in Europe and Russia, Central Asia and Iran, cannot be underestimated.
The European Union finds it alarming that the majority of heroin used in the Member States comes from the poppy fields of Afghanistan.
The Union has noted the recent report by the UN drugs control programme, the UNDCP, according to which Afghanistan is, at present, clearly the largest global producer of opium.
Its world share of production is 75%.
In 1999 opium production grew by 100% on the previous year, reaching the highest volume so far, with a figure of 4,600 tons, which is partly due to the considerable expansion of the crop-growing sector.
The Council proposed an overall EU policy in an amended EU common position on Afghanistan, which was adopted on 25 January 1999.
The main aims for Afghanistan are inter alia to achieve a lasting peace and promote an internal dialogue for Afghanistan by offering specific support for the key role played by the UN; in addition, to promote stability and development for the whole region through peace in the country, and to make the prevention of illegal drugs production and terrorism more effective.
Owing to the politically unstable situation in the country and the civil war, not one Member State recognises the Taleban government.
A common position by the Union, however, urges Member States to maintain relations with all Afghan groups.
The European Union has condemned the many violations of human rights that have occurred in Afghanistan, especially the continual and systematic discrimination towards women and girl children, executions carried out without trial and a system based on harsh discipline and tyranny.
Because the political situation in Afghanistan is critical, and conditions are not right for the creation of bilateral relations, it is difficult, in the opinion of the European Union, to participate effectively in drugs control activity in Afghanistan.
The European Union has noted that the UN drugs control programme, the UNDCP, began its pilot programme in Afghanistan, one that made slow but steady progress, in 1998.
The programme is based on the UNDCP' s commitment to financing development in special poppy field areas, to which the Taleban have responded by agreeing not to allow the cultivation of opium poppies in new areas, and to permit the UNDCP to control the opium poppy crop and commence action to prevent the illegal traffic of drugs and pull down illegal laboratories.
Mr President, I can well believe that the Council is concerned by what has happened.
My question, however, was different and was about past results.
Past results tell us that production has doubled.
With the commitment of the common position of January 1998, the Council said that the Union would support all the efforts of the UNDCP in Afghanistan, and you have done this with your financing. The problem is the result of that financing.
The result is that production has doubled.
My question is therefore whether you are going to continue along this same ruinous path, that does not only affect Afghanistan: in fact, the problem is that the European Union is continuing to finance the UNDCP even on programmes such as the consolidation of penal codes in countries such as China and Burma, countries where simple drug addicts are condemned to die, and indirectly, we, through the UNDCP, are collaborating and financing this type of project.
Therefore, faced with a specific failure which is documented in these policies, the question is: are we going to continue to finance this type of project even though it actually makes totalitarian regimes stronger, regimes that are in fact criminal and oppress human rights?
That is my question.
Mr President, I will be happy to answer the honourable member' s new question, which concerns UNDCP funding.
The UNDCP is not financed out of the European Union budget.
The European Union supports the work of the UNDCP on a general level, which it does in a well established and effective way in the area of drugs control, and it is also very satisfied with the cooperation that has taken place with the UNDCP in other areas.
As the honourable member stated, operations in Afghanistan are hampered by the lack of any broadly based government and, thus, a suitable and reliable partner in cooperation.
The European Union is working with Afghanistan' s neighbours, mainly in Central Asia as well as Iran, to enhance anti-drugs cooperation conducted with them.
The Union considers Central Asia to be strategically important in the control of drugs and is at present drafting an action plan for the region.
One cause of the critical drug situation is the lack of any proper border control between Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Khirgizia, Uzbekistan and Russia.
The European Union is attempting to resolve the problem by promoting the TACIS projects implemented within the context of customs cooperation and of justice and home affairs.
The projects aim, among other things, to make border controls more efficient between Iran, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, improve the training of customs officials, and increase drugs-related expertise in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Khirgizia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Russia.
Regarding Iran, the European Union has been informed that the UNDCP has just approved a drugs control programme for that country, and opened an office there.
Member States are at present exploring ways in which they can participate in financing this programme.
Question No 4 by (H-0609/99):
Subject: Joint drugs action centre International action is required to combat the problems posed by drugs.
European, national and local efforts alone are not sufficient for dealing with global problems.
The public in the EU has a direct interest in preventing the spread of drugs.
Efforts to curb the influx of drugs are being made by EU Member States and by the USA.
More organised forms of cooperation could help to make such efforts more effective.
What is the Council's position on forming a partnership with the USA in order to set up a joint drugs action centre in Bangkok?
Have steps been taken to enhance the prospects of such an alternative approach?
I apologise for my inaccurate pronunciation of your surname but at last we know who you are!
In the joint action plan for the EU and the United States, signed in Madrid on 3 December 1995, the following are prescribed under the heading "Reaction to Global Challenges" : increased cooperation in the fight against illegal drug trading, measures of cooperation between competent American authorities and Europol, cooperation in supporting the UN' s drugs monitoring programme, coordination of alternative development programmes designed to counteract drug manufacture, and the setting up of channels of cooperation between appropriate bodies, for example the EU' s European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the Inter-American Monitoring Commission for Drug Addiction.
For the purpose of implementing this action plan, an agreement between the EC and the United States concerning the monitoring of chemical precursors was signed in The Hague on 28 May 1997.
Further opportunities for strengthening cooperation are being investigated within the EU-USA project group.
American authorities have approached the European Union with a view to possible cooperation within the international police college in Bangkok, which is a body like the one in Budapest.
The proposal is currently being dealt with by the Council' s departments.
I have only praise to give.
I think this is very good indeed and I want to thank you very much for your answer.
My only problem is that these questions do not get out to the public.
Just as the discussion earlier today showed, providing information is a part of the development process for creating understanding for the fact that a variety of measures are required.
We must try, I believe, both in the Council and the European Parliament, as well as in other EU bodies such as Information Offices, to make the importance of providing information more widely understood.
Our citizens would then have a better understanding of the need for increased legal and policing measures which are necessary on an international basis. We are certainly in agreement about that.
My next question is therefore this: are we going to get any information later on about the results which emerge at this centre in Bangkok?
As I said, there is no decision as to whether we are to participate in this partnership in Bangkok.
This proposal is being discussed by the Council' s departments at this moment.
As I see it, the discussions should take place in a positive spirit.
As the Member says, there are clearly quite a few questions being discussed and answered here today during the sitting, but there is relatively little information about these questions for the public.
Where results are concerned, it is in both the Council' s and the Commission' s interests, as well as those of the EU as a whole, to report on progress in this work because this in itself strengthens measures to achieve better results in the fight against drugs.
Mr Sasi, in the United States the annual USD 18 billion spent in the fight against drugs is increasingly being called into question.
Very recently, the Financial Times invited the European public to reassess prohibitionist policies.
I wonder whether, in the appraisals we have been told the Council is making, a cost/benefit assessment has been included of how much these contributions to the so-called fight against drugs are costing European taxpayers and what practical benefits they are bringing.
As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
Question No 6 by (H-0555/99):
Subject: Nuclear power stations in territories bordering on the EU In view of the severe damage caused in the EU by the Chernobyl nuclear accident, what policy does the Council propose to follow as regards providing advice to neighbouring countries and cooperating with them in the development of alternative energy sources?
Mr President, the Council is concerned, just as the honourable Member is, about nuclear safety and would like to reconfirm that it follows the situation very closely.
The Council would like to remind everyone of the conclusions reached on 25 May 1994 in this matter, which concern nuclear safety in the electricity industry in Central and Eastern European countries and the newly independent states, and in which the Council defines its approach to this question.
In its conclusions, the Council reconfirmed its commitment to promote nuclear safety in the countries in question, and repeated that it was aware that the improvements spoken of must be implemented by means of reliable short- and long-term energy strategies.
In the Council' s conclusions regarding nuclear safety in connection with EU enlargement, it was emphasised that the countries in question use reactors that are impossible to modernise at reasonable expense to comply with internationally approved standards of safety, and that strategies for the energy industry should include preparations to decommission these reactors as quickly as possible, in accordance with an agreed timetable for our accession partners, and in compliance with the agreements relating to nuclear safety bookkeeping.
In addition, the Council has said it is ready to support the development of alternative energy sources with the means the EU and the Member States have at their disposal in order to replace the more unreliable nuclear power plants, at the same time taking account of the situation as a whole as well as each country' s special situation and needs.
In recent years we have regularly taken into consideration the fact that the European Union' s neighbouring countries, whether they be the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe or the countries in the European Free Trade Association, and those belonging to the European Economic Area, participate in important Community action concerning the development of the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
The countries in question may participate in the ALTENER II programme, which is a programme to promote the use of new sources of energy, and in the SAVE II programme, which concerns energy efficiency.
We should also point out that this opportunity has been exploited on a large scale in the SAVE II programme, participation in which has been decided by the competent Association Council.
I am glad that the Council has responded positively to this question, specifically with regard to the countries of the Middle East.
I live in the Canary Islands, 100 kilometres from Tan Tan, a Moroccan location where the Moroccan Government has now begun a nuclear programme.
My supplementary question to the Council asks whether it would consider the possibility of contacting the Moroccan Government with a view to preventing this enterprise which is dangerous for Morocco and, of course, for us, who are its closest neighbours.
Mr President, I would like to say that nuclear power, when used reliably and safely, and when properly supervised, is not dangerous.
As for the associated countries, among others, the threats their nuclear power plants pose have been carefully examined.
Any action the Commission has requested or ordered has concerned plants where safety problems have been discovered.
Unfortunately, I do not know much about the Moroccan nuclear power project, and I cannot judge whether it will present risks or whether it will be implemented without paying sufficient attention to possible risk factors.
We shall try to ensure that such a project fulfils all the necessary demands of nuclear safety and, that being the case, it would not present any kind of danger to the Canaries region either.
Mr President-in-Office, I am delighted to hear that you say safe nuclear energy is indeed safe to use, because it is impractical to expect countries that are currently producing 30 and 40% of their energy from nuclear power to replace this with renewable energies on any financial or economic terms or with the burning of fossil fuels without considerable further damage to the environment in these already polluted countries.
Mr President, it is absolutely clear that we can assess the disadvantages of various forms of energy production.
Obviously, there is no fully standardised method of gauging them, but it is very clear that the greenhouse phenomenon has nothing to do with nuclear power, which does not produce carbon dioxide emissions and, that being the case, it is totally superior to coal or gas, for example.
But I would like to point out that when nuclear power is used, it must be used safely in all respects.
I would also remind everyone that in many EU countries nuclear power is used on a massive scale and, regarding my own country, Finland, I can state that we have two nuclear power stations with Russian-built reactors which, according to statistics, are among the world' s best in terms of efficiency and safety.
Your answer was interesting.
I should like to refer to a debate we had yesterday about nuclear safety in Eastern Europe.
I wonder: do you consider that the Commission has a legal basis for what it has said in its progress reports about, among other things, making it a condition of membership of the European Union that the nuclear power station in Bulgaria and the Slovakian one with the difficult name beginning with a "B" , Bohunice, should be shut down?
Do you consider that there is a legal basis for this?
I am a lawyer, but I must say that, as far as I know, there is no legal basis for being able to demand that any reactor be shut down.
Where accession to the EU is concerned, it must be pointed out that this is always in the end a political decision.
Each Member State must approve the accession of new Member States.
Each country' s parliament must also ratify any such agreement.
As I see it, there is, however, no special legal reason for requiring applicant countries to take measures such as those described, but political realities may be the basis for making certain demands.
Clearly, the Commission must take account of problems which may arise if, for example, reactors are used which may present a danger to health.
Obviously, the European Union cannot tolerate our having forms of energy production which may cause health problems for citizens within the Union' s borders.
Question No 7 by (H-0559/99):
Subject: Creating openness through a regulation In the Spring of 1999, COREPER urged the Commission to submit the proposal required to give practical expression to the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty concerning openness.
Has the Council also urged the new Commission to do so?
Would it not be most expedient to submit a specific proposal for a regulation and not a communication as planned last Spring?
Which working party will draw up the proposal in the Council B an ad hoc working party of representatives from the Ministries of Justice, for example, or the existing information unit in the Council which currently deals with inquiries concerning documents?
As the honourable Member knows, Article 255, formerly Article 191a, of the Treaty establishing the European Community reads as follows:
"1.
Any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State, shall have a right of access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents, subject to the principles and the conditions to be defined in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3.
2.
General principles and limits on grounds of public or private interest governing this right of access to documents shall be determined by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 within two years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
3.
Each institution referred to above shall elaborate in its own Rules of Procedure specific provisions regarding access to its documents."
To date, the Commission has not submitted any official proposal for an Act.
Nor has the Council under such circumstances yet been able to begin discussing the matter.
In view of the fact that the general principles and limits relating to the public' s right of access, in accordance with Article 255, to the above-mentioned institutions' documents are to be established with the European Parliament in accordance with the relevant decision-making procedure by no later than 30 April 2001, the Council will begin discussing any proposal for an Act as soon as it has received this.
No decision has yet been made as to the working party which is to be responsible for examining the Commission' s proposal.
In his programme document on transparency, the chairman of the working party concerned with making information available presented the idea of an ad hoc group consisting specifically of experts on making documents available to the public.
As you said in your answer, 30 April 2001 is the last date for approving this.
It is a long and difficult process.
As citizens and as Members of the European Parliament, we are extremely concerned that there are no concrete signs of the Commission' s putting forward such a proposal during the Finnish Presidency when we should like to have begun the preparation.
We know, as I mentioned in the question, that COREPER urged the Commission, which is to say the Interim Commission, to submit a proposal.
What do we know about the situation?
It is up to the Commission to put forward something.
I think we ought to put some pressure now upon the Commission. Quite a long time has passed.
We know that there has been a discussion document which has been circulated and debated in various quarters.
I am extremely concerned that we shall not be able to comply with the timetable if we do not now urge the Commission to be more pro-active.

As has been said, openness is one of the absolute priorities for the Finnish Presidency We have therefore been in close contact with the Commission in connection with this issue.
As the Member says, COREPER too has urged the Commission to come up with a proposal.
We last discussed this question today with the Commission' s President and the Commission' s secretary-general.
The information we had today was to the effect that the Commission unfortunately could not submit its proposal this year but that it will be doing so in January of next year.
Question No 8 by (H-0564/99):
Subject: Access to Council documents by the public How much progress has been made with the register of Council documents which would be accessible to the public on the Internet B which I believe was planned for January 1998?
Mr President, on the basis of a Council decision made on 19 March 1998, a Council document register was made available to the public on the Internet on 1 January 1999.
During the first half of 1999 the web site was visited by more than 35,000 people.
Within six months it held information relating to 43,000 documents.
The register is proving a reliable and effective tool, which the public can use to acquire information on Council documents.
Consequently, the number of requests for documents has considerably increased.
It is now more than double the figure for 1998.
The document register has thus been on the Internet at the disposal of the public since the start of this year.
At present, the Council is looking into ways of improving how the registers work, for example, so that other than confidential documents would be available to the public directly from the Internet.
Let it be noted that so far the Council is the only institution to have made an open register of its documents available to the public, according to the recommendation of the European Ombudsman.
I am very disappointed by what the Council has done.
If you boast about 43,000 documents I wonder if you have actually visited the Internet site?
This is a very small mouse that you have managed to produce so far.
Forty-three thousand sounds like a lot. But anybody can produce 43,000 documents.
It is what they say that matters.
They are very slow in arriving.
You cannot find out how votes went in the Council.
That is still secret.
You cannot find a compte rendu of what people actually said in the Council.
That is still secret.
It is deeply inadequate what you have done.
In answer to the last question, Mr President, you said that transparency was one of the great priorities of the Finnish Presidency.
The Finnish nation is famous for its openness but so far we have reached November in your Presidency and this is still a disaster.
Would you please try and improve the register which is, as I said, a very small mouse.
There is still a long way to go.
Mr President, according to my information on the present situation there is a monthly summary of voting results available, allowing the public to see how things have gone in the Councils.
I would also like to say that the public can presently consult a directory of Council documents on the Internet containing reference information on them.
I would, however, repeat that the competent bodies of the Council are investigating the possibility of improving public access to its documents, so that all documents other than those classified as confidential will be available on the Internet.
The country to hold the Presidency in any case endorses this position, and I believe that the Council will do its utmost to make its work as open as possible.
I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council for confirmation that information on which country voted in which way is not at the moment given when the Council issues its press releases at the end of each Council meeting.
Would the Finnish Presidency not agree that there are still a number of Council meetings to be held before the end of its Presidency and that it could use them as a very useful precedent for establishing its credentials in terms of openness - which at the moment, I am afraid, do not exist - by making sure at the very least that when press releases are published at the end of Council meetings, those press releases list exactly how each country voted on each issue on which there was a vote?
Mr President, it is true that the bulletins issued after Council meetings do not make immediately clear which countries voted which way.
However, I would like to repeat that information on how the Member States voted is made public in monthly reports.
I would also like to say that the press normally carry stories, often before the meetings, on how the various states intend to vote on different issues in the Council.
Question No 9 by (H-0563/99):
Subject: Political prisoners in Burma Could the President-in-Office report on any recent debates and decisions taken by the Council of Foreign Ministers on the subject of the EU's policy towards Burma, and in particular on the possibility of securing from the Burmese government an amnesty for political prisoners?
Mr President, the Council has expressed in many connections its concern to the Burmese authorities regarding the situation in the country, and most recently at the plenary part-session on 11 and 12 October, when it extended the period its common position was to remain in force by six months, once more appealing to the Burmese government to embark on swift and concrete action for the promotion of respect for human rights and democratic and national harmony.
The Council has declared its full support for the UN Secretary-General' s special envoy, Alvaro De Soto, in his forthcoming duties, and decided to review its common position on the basis of the results of his work.
The Council is not doing terribly well, is it?
That is a very disappointing reply.
I was asked to raise this question by the Penzance branch of Amnesty International, which has taken under its wing a particular prisoner of conscience, Thet Win Aung.
I mention his name because he is a very good example of what is happening in Burma.
He is a student leader who was recently sentenced to 52 years of imprisonment, and this has now been increased to 59 years.
He was arrested in October 1998.
His place of detention is not known and his family is being put under terrible pressure.
My question to the Council is, given this awful background, is it willing to consider putting pressure upon Burma to declare a total amnesty for such political prisoners and, very much to the point, has the Council ever discussed the possibility of economic sanctions against Burma until it adopts a more humane policy?
Mr President, as I have already said, Burma' s internal political situation is by no means acceptable to the Union, as there is no acknowledgement in that country of fundamental human rights.
At present the Council is monitoring the situation and, as I stated, we have a common position on Burma, which - if I am not entirely mistaken - also includes certain economic sanctions.
I can assure the honourable Member that the Council will do all it can and put pressure on the Burmese government, so that the situation in Burma can be normalised and improved, and so that human rights will be respected in the future.
Question No 10 by (H-0572/99):
Subject: Conditions for the inclusion of Turkey among countries eligible for membership of the European Union The European Union refused to embark upon pre-accession negotiations with Slovakia and the Baltic States because they did not fulfil the Copenhagen criteria concerning democratic freedoms and respect for minorities.
Their impending recognition as countries eligible for accession comes after significant constitutional, legal and political reforms.
Will the European Council meeting in Helsinki also pursue the same policy towards Turkey?
Does the Finnish Presidency consider that the basic conditions for recognising Turkey as eligible for membership of the European Union should at least comprise dropping the demand for international recognition of a >Turkish-Cypriot state= in the occupied territories of the Republic of Cyprus in order to launch intercommunal talks, Turkey=s agreement to seek settlements of the differences between Greece and Turkey on the basis of international law and its institutions, and the opening of talks on the democratic and cultural rights of the Kurds?
Mr President, the Council would like to stress that the criteria agreed at the European Council in Copenhagen affect in the same way all countries seeking EU membership.
The Council would remind everyone that the European Council in Luxembourg stated that Turkey would be assessed according to the same criteria as the other applicant countries.
The European Council furthermore reminded everyone that, in order to strengthen relations between Turkey and the EU, there would be a need for political and social reforms, such as respect and protection for minorities, the creation of satisfactory and stable relations between Greece and Turkey and support for the talks being conducted under UN protection on a political solution in Cyprus.
We are aware that decisions on enlargement taken at the European Council in Helsinki, which will be made with reference to the Commission' s annual report will have a powerful impact on relations between the EU and Turkey.
Although we cannot predict the outcome of the talks in Helsinki, and although there is still much scope for improvement with regard to Turkey, it seems reasonable to reflect on the many important areas of progress that have been made, which should be taken into consideration.
The outcome of the informal meeting of foreign ministers at Saariselkä, which was set forth on 13 September in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council, and Foreign Minister Cem' s presence at the General Affairs Council' s lunch are, in the opinion of the country to hold the Presidency, signs of a constructive new beginning in relations between the Union and Turkey.
Improved relations between Greece and Turkey, not just as a result of the earthquakes, but as an issue in itself, and a discernible change in attitude in Turkey with regard to legal and constitutional reform, human rights and the Turkish Kurds are very welcome steps forward, as are also the commitments and recognition of realities contained in Bülent Ecevit' s letter to Chancellor Gerhard Schröder last May.
The representative of the Council' s response is ambiguous and somewhat schizophrenic in nature. On the one hand, he says that we need to implement the criteria but, on the other hand, he says things are running smoothly in Turkey and so we can proceed.
This is clear to us all.
Nevertheless, I would like to take the discussion a little further.
At one point, he referred to a number of things Turkey must still do. "there is still much scope for improvement with regard to Turkey" , the Minister said.
How much scope for improvement is there in Turkey?
Is Turkey really ready to be granted applicant status on the basis of what it has done today and the declarations it has made?
As regards fundamental issues such as the Greek-Turkish dispute over the Aegean Sea, should the criteria not be for Turkey to recognise the opinions of other countries, but for it to respect international law, to refrain from using violence or threatening to use violence and to refer any disputes it may have to the International Court in The Hague.
Mr President, this autumn I myself went to Turkey and had talks there on the state of human rights in that country.
I expressed the Union' s clear position on the unsatisfactory situation we see regarding human rights there.
I would like to say, however, that a constructive attitude to Turkey is likely to be a much better policy for the Union than would be the case if Turkey turned its back on the Union entirely and did not even try to embrace those principles that we have incorporated as conditions of membership in the Copenhagen criteria or in other decisions we have taken.
I firmly believe that if Turkey were accorded applicant status in Helsinki, it would increase Turkey' s willingness and its efforts to put its own house in order relatively quickly, especially with regard to human rights and the police.
We must remember that, before a state can join the Union, the human rights situation in respect of those living there obviously has to be impeccable.
I also want to point out that the Cyprus question is naturally an important part of all of this.
I believe that this perspective on membership has contributed to the fact that talks will probably very soon begin on how to solve the Cyprus problem.
It is my understanding that Rauf Denktash has promised he is ready to come to the negotiating table in New York, and this would obviously be a very positive sign.
I believe that we will achieve better results through constructive cooperation than by cutting the ties of cooperation.
Mr President, I rise not because of the topic of Mr Alavanos' question, but to comment on Minister Sasi' s answer and to put a question to him.
Minister Sasi, perhaps you should have said that this was more of a political debate and that a conclusion would be reached in Helsinki.
Instead you addressed many different issues under the same heading and no clear conclusion can be drawn from what you said.
I would like to ask a question.
You made the particular point about Turkey being judged on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria. If Turkey is therefore accorded applicant status in Helsinki, are we then to assume that it has fulfilled those criteria?
Please answer us that.
We should not be bothering ourselves with all these other factors. Instead, we should try to talk some sense here.
I am saying all this, Mr President, because I believe that when the Council comes here, it should have more respect for this institution.
We are parliamentarians after all!
Mr President, firstly, I wish to say that Turkey at present does not meet the Copenhagen criteria, but neither do we intend to make a decision in Helsinki on commencing talks with Turkey, which is what is being planned at this moment for Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria.
In other words, it is not a question of actually starting talks, but of establishing applicant status and taking subsequent action.
I believe that it is realistic to say that Turkey still has a rather long way to go before concrete negotiations on membership can begin.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would not describe the response as being schizophrenic in nature, I would just like to know, as we all would, whether the strengthening of relations between the European Union and Turkey is a high priority for the Council, and whether it is such a high priority that those conditions set by the Council to ensure this strengthening of relations are actually being brushed aside.
You said, Mr President-in-Office, that Turkey' s position had changed.
How has Turkey' s position changed exactly?
Turkish forces still occupy the northern part of Cyprus, political rights are still being violated, Öçalan is still in prison and Kurdish people are not even given recognition.
You also talk of some promise of negotiations.
Indeed, there is such a promise, as regards the Cyprus issue, but it would cost Turkey nothing to begin negotiations, to talk for 15 minutes and then to have done with it.
At the same time, this would give the Council good enough reason to say "There! We have now made some progress on the Cyprus issue" .

Mr President, I would like to say that Turkey certainly has implemented action this year to try and improve human rights, but the truth is that it obviously still has a long way to go in this area, and change does not come quickly in any society.
On the whole, I believe that cooperation is a better way to build peace that an unwillingness to practise cooperation.
Question No 11 by (H-0602/99):
Subject: Restrictions imposed by Turkey on freedom of navigation On 27 May 1997 the Turkish authorities issued Decision No 2646, signed by Mr Nazmi Kumral (Minister of State of the Marine) prohibiting merchant vessels flying the Cypriot flag or belonging to citizens of Cyprus or of other countries, including the 15 Member States of the European Union, from entering Turkey if they are proceeding from or to any port in the unoccupied area of the Republic of Cyprus.
The Republic of Cyprus, on the other hand, which is a victim of Turkish aggression, 37% of it being under illegal Turkish military occupation, has not imposed any limits on entry into its ports by vessels from Turkey.
Does the Council consider these restrictions imposed by Turkey to be in accordance with EU principles and does the Council consider it acceptable for a country aspiring to EU membership to take such action against vessels flying the flags of EU Member States?
Mr President, the Council believes that the Turkish action affects the interests of merchant vessels flying a Member State flag and operating between Turkey and Cyprus, and private vessels owned by shipping companies in the Community.
In addition, these restrictions do not accord with the basic principles of trade and free competition at sea based on integrity and commercialism as accepted by Turkey within the framework of the OECD.
For this reason, numerous official communications have been sent to the Turkish authorities.
Mr President, I consider it a positive sign that there have been remonstrations against Turkey but I would also like to stress my disappointment that what Turkey is doing to the detriment of merchant fleets around the world, including the merchant fleets of the European Union, is being played down.
Since Turkey has taken no direct action, it is in violation of international law, the rules of free navigation and the treaties of the European Union.
What Turkey is in fact doing is prohibiting vessels proceeding from Cypriot ports from approaching Turkish ports.
This does not just refer to vessels which are actually from Cyprus or Greece, which would have roused particular interest, but it also refers to European Union vessels.
I would like to ask what response Turkey gave to the European Union' s remonstrations and if it gave no response at all, why then does it not take the matter to the International Court in the Hague?
I also wonder why the European Union is prepared to tolerate such unlawfulness and harm the interests of European shipping for a country which does not even have any qualms about threatening a superpower, i.e. the United States, just to defend its banana trade.
Mr President, the contentious decision of the Turkish Government is yet another example of Turkey' s total disregard for and blatant violation of maritime law following the Turkish Grand National Assembly authorising the Turkish Government to claim casus belli and to declare war on Greece should Greece exercise its rights to extend its territorial waters in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea which only Turkey has refused to sign. In light of this, I would like to ask the Council if it intends to address this particular issue in its remonstrations to Ankara as well as at the forthcoming European Council in Helsinki in the discussions on EU-Turkey relations and the criteria which, as the Minister said, must be fulfilled.
Mr President, as I said, the Commission intends to raise this matter in the bilateral discussions on reaching a preferential agreement on the liberalisation of services and public procurement between the EU and Turkey.
Furthermore, the Council can take up this matter in discussions with Turkey, but there will not be any negotiations as such with Turkey at the Helsinki Summit, so the matter will hardly be brought up there.
Question No 12 by (H-0576/99):
Subject: Substance abusers and methods of treatment An increasing number of substance abusers also have mental problems which, quite clearly, entail difficulties for themselves and difficulties finding effective methods of treatment.
In the Council=s view, how should we tackle this growing problem?
- (SV) There has been no proposal submitted to the Council relating to the question asked by the honourable Member.
Finding suitable methods of treatment is, moreover, a matter which falls mainly within the Member States' area of responsibility.
Thank you very much for your answer.
I am aware of the fact that this matter falls within the Member States' area of responsibility, but we nonetheless know that it is a shared problem which is not just a question of methods of treatment in general but precisely about the combination of substance abuse and mental illnesses.
I know that the Finnish presidency has had mental health as one of a number of topics in its programme.
I am therefore wondering now whether one might contemplate opening the doors to more explicit cooperation in connection with the problematic situation in which many people are diagnosed as having a combination of substance abuse and mental health problems.
As has been said, this matter comes within the Member States' area of responsibility.
At the same time, there is no reason why it should not be possible to discuss the issue at the meeting of the health ministers and, in that way, then try to create some type of, not perhaps cooperation, but contacts, and perhaps exchange information from different countries in an attempt to develop the methods concerned in different EU countries.
I must admit that I am no expert in this area of responsibility.
I cannot unfortunately give a clearer answer.
Question No 13 by (H-0578/99):
Subject: Growing federalism in EU decision making Speaking in Strasbourg in July as a representative of the country currently holding the Presidency of the Council, Finland=s Foreign Minister stated one of Finland=s objectives as being to ensure that the Union had a common will, a common policy and a common voice.
On this basis a policy is being developed within the Council which will increase the federalisation of the EU: common decision-making bodies in which supranational decisions are taken.
What is the Council=s position on a federalism which would compel countries to surrender their right of veto and qualified-majority requirements in order to facilitate supranational decision making?
Mr President, the Council, like the other institutions, exercises its powers according to those conditions and for those purposes that are defined in Article 5 of the EC Treaty and in the provisions of later agreements and documents relating to amendments and additions, on the one hand, and the provisions of the Treaty on the European Union, on the other.
The voting rules contained in these agreements apply when decisions are made in the Council.
Extending the scope of application of decisions based on a qualified majority in the Council is one of those issues to be discussed at the conference of the representatives of Member State governments, which is to convene at the beginning of 2000.
The European Council took a decision on the matter at its meeting at Cologne on 3 and 4 June 1999.
In the Protocol relating to the institutions and EU enlargement and which is annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, there are provisions for convening this Intergovernmental Conference.
The honourable Member' s question thus does not fall within the area of responsibility of the Council but of that of the conference of representatives of Member State governments.
I would just like to follow up the response from the President-in-Office of the Council to this question by mentioning the Luxembourg Compromise which we do not hear much of now.
The question is asked - the opinion of the Council about federalism - about surrendering sovereignty to majority voting.
Is the Luxembourg Compromise still regarded as being in force and being respected and would you not agree that it should be?
I mean the compromise by which it is understood that the vital national interests of a Member State will not be overruled by a majority vote in Council.
That is my understanding of that compromise.
Mr President, a compromise was made in Luxembourg at the time, and it is in principle still in force, although it might be said that no one has recently insisted that it be applied.
Perhaps we should also mention that after that the Ioannina compromise was made.
Question No 14 by (H-0583/99):
Subject: Brominated flame retardants There have recently been alarming reports in Sweden of high levels of brominated flame retardants in fish in the Baltic.
The Swedish government has promised to ban brominated flame retardants in 2004 and to press for reductions in their use.
How does the Council intend to deal with the problem of brominated flame retardants?
Does it intend to seek a ban at EU level, and if so, when?
Would a unilateral Swedish ban on brominated fire retardants be regarded as hampering the free movement of goods and thus as an infringement of EU law?
The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor to respond to this question.
We trust in the wisdom of the Council.
- (SV) The honourable Member has asked a question concerning the high levels of brominated flame retardants in fish in the Baltic.
As the Member is aware, the Council has promulgated legislation which makes it possible to assess and reduce the risks to the environment and to people' s health constituted by hazardous substances.
Furthermore, the Council' s conclusions concerning the further development of the European Community' s policy on chemicals were adopted by the Council - that is to say, the Council on the Environment - on 24 June of this year.
In these conclusions, the Council urges the Commission to submit a document concerning the new strategy on chemicals before the end of the year 2000.
This document ought to include an outline of a new strategy for improving the identification and assessment of all chemicals.
Thank you for your answer, which it was also very nice to have in Swedish.
I perhaps understand why the answer was as it was, but this business with fish in the Baltic is just one example of how brominated flame retardants can cause problems for the environment and for people' s health.
We know, you see, that these flame retardants have been used quite freely since the beginning of the seventies in electronic equipment, TV sets, computers etc, and they have just proliferated.
This is an enormous problem because Swedish studies, and other studies too, show that we are going to see precisely the same thing happen as we saw happen with PCBs, namely that these chemicals will find their way into the food chains and it will gradually emerge that a big problem has arisen.
I should like an answer to the question of whether Sweden would be able to take a decision to prohibit these substances by the year 2004 and whether the EU would be able to agree to this; that is to say, would the precautionary principle prevail?
- (SV) Since I am not familiar with the investigation concerning the dangers to which these substances give rise, I must say that I cannot, unfortunately, reply directly to the question of whether arrangements should be made to prohibit the use of such substances.
I should like, nonetheless, to refer to the Council' s conclusions, to which I also referred in my first reply and which I can also send to you if you wish.
In accordance with the general programme in Council Regulation no 793/93 concerning the assessment and monitoring of risks presented by existing substances, three brominated flame retardants are at present under investigation.
If required, the Commission will submit proposals concerning Community measures to reduce the risks to which these substances give rise.
Other specific questions which have also been asked in this context fall within the Commission' s area of authority, and the Commission, in its capacity as administrator of the Community' s policy, also has access to the tools and information which are needed if reliable and up-to-date answers are to be given.
When it comes to being able to prohibit these substances, I believe, finally, that the Commission must be asked for its answer to this question.
Question No 15 by (H-0585/99):
Subject: Ban on fuel supplies and looming humanitarian disaster in Yugoslavia The European Union=s opposition, expressed notably at the meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg, to providing fuel and emergency aid for the inhabitants of Yugoslavia to enable them to face the coming winter and the final decision to export heating oil B a plan called Energy for Democracy B to two Serb cities, Nis and Pirot, which are under opposition control, has provoked strong reactions.
This decision not only condemns the inhabitants of Yugoslavia to spend the winter entirely deprived of essential heating fuel, following the massive damage inflicted on state infrastructures by NATO bombing, but it is also an insult to the pride of an entire people who are the victims of extortion and who are facing annihilation because the West does not approve of their political leadership.
The Danish Foreign Minister, Mr Petersen, recently stated that this decision sends the right message that democracy and a desire for reform are rewarded.
Does the Council consider that statements of this kind reflect the position of the European Union and the so-called international community as regards respect for fundamental democratic freedoms and values? Does it consider further that the blackmailing decision of Luxembourg is a message which promotes democracy, in view of the fact that it seeks to bludgeon a people and its political representatives into adopting anti-democratic practices in order to survive, instead of ensuring that the institutions function in a smooth and democratic manner in the forthcoming elections?
Mr President, on 15 November the General Affairs Council declared its support for the democratic opposition in Serbia, and its attempts at unification.
In addition, it said once more that the Union was ready to offer reconstruction aid to a democratic Serbia.
The General Affairs Council noted with satisfaction that the first deliveries of heating oil for the two cities of Nis and Pirot under the "Energy for Democracy" programme would take place before the end of November.
It requires the projects to be swiftly implemented, and the Council reconfirmed its readiness to consider extending the initiative to other communities.
The Council also reminded everyone of its readiness to continue to help destitute Serbs and of the humanitarian aid granted by the European Community and the Member States for this purpose.
The 'self-help aid' granted by ECHO to Serbia will total EUR 62 million, which the Council welcomed at its meeting.
Regarding the elections to be held in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Council thinks that, under the present circumstances, the idea of free and honestly conducted elections is impossible.
Police attacks at peaceful demonstrations, which were carried out repeatedly in Belgrade in October, clearly show that the basic values of democracy, such as freedom of speech and opinion, will not be respected in Serbia as long as Milosevic and his government are in power there.
Mr President, if I am not mistaken, the Council called its programme "Energy for Democracy" .
Now we are saying that it is simply humanitarian intervention.
The phrase "Energy for Democracy" itself denotes shameless extortion of the Serbian people, since in order to get heating fuel, they must accept the ideas of European Union democracy.
Secondly, I would like to comment on and ask the representative of the Council the following: he says that the European Union will not recognise the Milosevic regime and that fair elections cannot take place until judgements have been passed on the political powers of Yugoslavia, of Serbia.
So, what are your plans?
Have you reached a deadlock?
Do you have any other plans in the pipeline that you are not telling Parliament?
What are we to make of your intentions since, in your view, elections are not the answer?
Even rallies have been banned....May I tell you that in Greece today, with the visit of President Clinton, half of Athens has been cordoned off for two or three days?
Mr President, it is absolutely clear that free democratic elections in Yugoslavia are the only solution to the situation there.
But in reply I would say that, at present, circumstances in Yugoslavia, taking into consideration, for example police action and the aggressive attitude towards demonstrations, as well as the Milosevic administration' s attitude towards the press and freedom of information, are such that the conditions for holding free democratic elections in Yugoslavia do no exist right at present.
The basis of Union policy is that it has no desire to support the Milosevic administration in any way whatsoever.
As the Union considers humanitarian factors to be very important, however, and does not accept that the deeds of leaders should mean that ordinary citizens have to suffer, it has embarked on a trial project, whereby heating oil will be delivered on a trial basis to Nis and Pirot, but possibly later on to other places as well.
We await with interest that the Yugoslavian government and administration approve these aid measures, as at present we do not have any good experience whatsoever of the government.
Passage along the Danube should be freed up as quickly as possible, but achieving cooperation in this respect has not been possible, and Yugoslavia has not embarked on any action to open up the Danube, although it has an obligation to do so under international agreements.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, may I thank you for the clear opinion you have expressed. I can really only register with indignation the fact that Mr Theonas is displaying sympathy here for a war criminal.
I should like, however, to ask you quite specifically what the Council - apart from these sanctions, which I fully and completely approve of - is planning to do in order to provide concrete support to the Serbian opposition this winter.
Is a meeting planned, and are there concrete measures to support the Serbian democratic opposition?
For that would be of use to the Serbian people!
I would ask Members to address the Council with questions and not to make statements regarding the likes or dislikes of other Members because these naturally call for a response.
I am going to give Mr Theonas the floor for 15 seconds and I would ask him not to cause a parliamentary incident.
I know that he will not cause one because I know him.
I would ask all Members to adhere to the Rules of Procedure and address questions to the Council.
Mr President, I would like to invite Mr Posselt to retract his congratulations, otherwise I shall be forced into thinking that he despises an entire people for not accepting his views on democracy.
We should not hate the Serb population just because he wants the right to determine who should lead the country.
I am sure that Mr Posselt has no intention of showing disrespect for Mr Theonas' positions and has no difficulty in expressing it.
This is a purely political debate.
Has everybody received an answer and are you satisfied?
The Council will take the floor to answer this supplementary question.
Mr Sasi has the floor.
Question No 16 by (H-0586/99):
Subject: Financial Instrument of the OCTs (Overseas Countries and Territories) One of the objectives set by the Amsterdam Conference for the Council was to increase the effectiveness of the financial instrument of the OCTs.
The EDF mechanism no longer seems to be able to meet the needs expressed by the OCT authorities.
The main criticisms voiced are that they do not receive sufficient funding compared with the ACP countries, and that the procedures are excessively bureaucratic and totally untailored to local structures.
Parliament had called specifically for the establishment of a European Development Fund for the OCTs (OCTDF) in its resolution of 11 February 1999.
Does the Council intend to take into account our demand in the new association agreement which is due to enter into force on 1 March 2000?
I would like to tell the Minister that I do not find his answer very satisfactory.
What we are actually facing is the need to have a new association agreement that must come into force on 1 March 2000 and I am a little surprised that, at this stage, no decision has yet been taken on the three guidelines, on the three paths that have been sketched out.
I would like to ask the Council how, when these paths are sketched out, it intends to link, as it were, Parliament with the definition of this new financial instrument, because there is no doubt that a new financial instrument will be needed because what exists at the moment is no longer suitable for the situation of the overseas countries and territories and does not match up to these countries' requirements.
Mr President, I would just like to say and assure the honourable Member that the Council is fully aware that it is necessary to simplify the financial instrument for Overseas Countries and Territories and make it more efficient but, as I said, at present, we only have a communication from the Commission that proposes three different possible approaches.
For this reason, it will be some time before a final decision is taken on the matter.
Thank you very much, Mr Sasi.
Questions 17 and 18 were not going to be dealt with because they refer to the matter of Chechnya, which was included in today' s agenda.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Council has elapsed, questions 19 to 41 will be replied to in writing.
That concludes Question Time.
Thank you very much, good night and I hope that you will enjoy Strasbourg after a hard day at work.
(The sitting was closed at 10.05 p.m.)
Madam President, I should like to ask you to protest vehemently on behalf of all of us at the savage and brutal public execution on Tuesday of a mother of seven children by the Taliban regime in Kabul.
I will say no more, but I am disgusted - we must all be disgusted - at this savagery.
Please protest on behalf of all of us.
(Loud applause)
Mrs Doyle, I read this report myself and I must tell you I was outraged and shocked.
I believe your applause is a clear indication of the fact that we are all in agreement that I should announce the indignation of this House to Afghanistan.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Are there any comments?
Madame President, I have a problem with yesterday' s Minutes. They refer to me as 'Mr' .
I gave an explanation of vote on Avilés Perea' s report on the Daphne programme, I am referred to in the Minutes as 'Herr' Kauppi, and I would prefer it to read 'Madame' .
Well, I am quite dismayed at all these errors, which are obviously technical errors.
All the same, they are not acceptable, and we shall straighten all this out.
Madam President, on page 20 of the Minutes, it is announced that I spoke in support of Mr Dupuis.
Well, we are colleagues, and often agree, but that is not the point.
Both Mr Dupuis' speech and my own were intended to challenge the request made by the chair, Mr Barón Crespo, regarding the application of Rule 112.
Hence the request I made was addressed to the chair so that its validity could be evaluated and we could be told this morning what the state of affairs was.
Very well, Mr Dell' Alba.
That is what I am here for.
Madam President, yesterday's Minutes in the English also seem to indicate that they were the Minutes of Thursday 17 December.
I am sure that Parliament would not be writing today's Minutes before we have actually had our debates and votes.
I hope that will be corrected.
No, of course, I can assure you immediately that that is not the case.
It is indeed an error.
Madam President, I want to refer to your expression of sympathy with the people of France who are affected by severe flooding.
It was very appropriate that you should raise this matter yesterday morning. But you not only expressed sympathy, you also requested the Commission to provide some assistance.
Sometimes in Parliament the right hand does not know what the left one is doing.
A couple of years ago we took away the possibility of extending assistance to people in such instances in the European Union.
We expressed the same sympathy with the Greeks and requested the same assistance, but there is no money available.
We ought therefore in future to either provide the money and the conditions under which it is paid or cease to ask the Commission to give assistance.
What we gave the Greeks was an empty cup.
We are offering the same thing to the people of France.
Thank you, Mr McCartin.
Indeed, I had to mention the same problem when opening yesterday' s sitting.
Madam President, I would like to table a procedural motion.
I failed to notice that we had moved on from the procedural motions to the report.
I would like to raise a minor motion on something that could be deemed insignificant, but as each day passes, I get increasingly frustrated at the crazy amounts of paper being wasted in this establishment.
It is not just a lot of energy on words that is being wasted here, there is an incredible amount of paper wasted and there is no sign of any kind of recycling scheme.
At the other Parliament based in Brussels, we at least have cardboard boxes where we can deposit the massive amounts of paper which we no longer need.
At this end, despite the ultra-modern and sophisticated design of this building, I have as yet been unable to detect the existence of such practical, inexpensive cardboard boxes which can play a key role in the recycling of paper.
I would like to ask you to make a little effort here.
Surely, the budget could stretch to a few cardboard boxes for the Members where we can stock paper for recycling purposes.
Thank you, Mr Vander Taelen, for this contribution which is indeed not strictly relevant to the Minutes.
But that does not matter.
It is a perfectly valid point which I shall pass on to the College of Quaestors this very day to see if we can find appropriate solutions to the problem you have brought up.
(The Minutes were adopted)
Decision on urgent procedure
Madam President, I was waiting for the vote on the Minutes to be completed before responding to Mr Vander Taelen.
You will all have noted that each of the waste bins is marked to show what it is to be used for, so there is in fact a specific paper and card bin.
So we do have this kind of sorting of waste in Parliament at Strasbourg.
Report (A5-0066/1999) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure following the Interinstitutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 on the internal investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)
President.
I have received a request for urgent procedure, in accordance with Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
The request for urgent procedure is motivated by the fact that it is imperative to respect the interinstitutional commitments on OLAF, implemented by the other institutions concerned.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
I think that Mr Dupuis will have the opportunity to respond to you, since he has signed up to speak against this request.
Mr Barón Crespo has just presented the request.
Mr Poettering is asking for the floor to speak in favour of this request.
Madam President, I must comment here.
First of all, I can say that our colleague Barón Crespo, whom I would describe not as an accomplice, but in all our political differences as an esteemed colleague, has given a correct account of the situation, as I explained orally to him, that we also, the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, wish for a vote to be taken on the Napolitano report.
I gave this explanation orally to Baron Crespo, but did not sign the proposal, because just before his request that I sign it, I had a conversation with a representative of your Office.
As the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, we said that we could and wished to help to carry it, if the problems in the Napolitano report are resolved to a certain extent and they are indeed at the limit so that we can also vote, although in no way are we really happy with the situation.
We said that we wished to conclude this tiresome business in November.
And we keep to our word.
But it is of course the responsibility of the President of the Parliament to ensure that the procedures run properly.
We assume that the urgent procedure can be dealt with in accordance with the rules.
On this basis we support the vote on Thursday, that is to say, today, so that we can bring this tiresome matter to a close.
But we expect that everything is in order with regard to the formal procedure.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
Yes, I believe that if the vote were to take place tomorrow, on Friday, we would have some trouble in mustering the 314 votes necessary.
But you never know!
Madam President, I think that Mr Voggenhuber wishes to speak against this proposal.
I am myself speaking to say that this request in inadmissible, insofar as Rule 112 refers to Rule 60, which is about Commission proposals and legislative texts.
Mr Barón Crespo has a very flexible view of our Rules of Procedure.
Yesterday he spoke of Rule 60, today he is talking about Rule 61, on constitutional matters.
Those present may observe the rich nature of Strasbourg nights and their capacity to cause our internal regulations to increase in number.
In the preamble to Mr Napolitano' s report, there is explicit reference to Article 199 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and this Article refers explicitly to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.
This is, then, further evidence that the procedure that Mr Barón Crespo requested yesterday has nothing to do with Rule 112.
I therefore request, Madam President, that there should be no vote and that Mr Barón Crespo' s request is considered inadmissible.
Very well, thank you, Mr Dupuis.
Mr Dupuis has just spoken regarding the admissibility of this request.
Mr Dupuis, you will not be surprised to hear that I spent some time last night studying this matter.
And I came to the conclusion that the request was perfectly admissible according to the Rules of Procedure.
Well, we have heard your views.
I now give the floor to Mr Voggenhuber, to speak against the request.
Ladies and gentlemen, matters seem clear enough, as much as they can be.
Rule 112 of our Rules of Procedure refers to Rule 60(1), "A request that a debate on a proposal on which Parliament has been consulted pursuant to Rule 60(1) be treated as urgent..."
And Rule 60(1) specifies, "Proposals from the Commission and other documents of a legislative nature" .
The problem of interpretation is focused on the nature of Mr Napolitano' s report.
As far as I am concerned, I consider - and once again this is what has influenced my thinking, but I shall ask Mr Napolitano if he agrees with me - that the subject of Mr Napolitano' s report is the application of a text of a legislative nature, since it is to do with the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the inquiries carried out by OLAF.
Considering that Mr Napolitano' s report concerns a text of a legislative nature, it seems to me that we are in the situation covered by Rule 60(1), as referred to by Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure.
I hope I have made this sufficiently clear.
Mr Napolitano, could you tell me if you share my opinion?
Madam President, I completely agree with the definition that you gave of the mandate given to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a very specific and limited mandate.
It is simply a question of inserting the interinstitutional agreement into our Rules of Procedure, and I therefore agree with what you said about the nature of the report.
Agenda
Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to spend all morning on this.
We have heard Mr Barón Crespo presenting the request, and Mr Poettering speaking in favour of this request.
Now I would like to know if there is any Member who wishes to speak against this request.
If there is no speaker against, I shall put the matter to the vote directly.
(Parliament agreed to urgent procedure)
This item is now entered as the first item on today' s agenda.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are going to hear from the rapporteur on the establishment of EURODAC, Mr Pirker, who has asked to be given the floor.
I quite understand what you have said, Mr Pirker.
I think that Mr Watson, the chairman of the Committee concerned, now wishes to make a statement.
This proposal for a Council Regulation is an important proposal.
My committee has worked very hard to prepare Parliament's response to this proposal in time for the deadline set down by the Council and in time for the Council to discuss it on 2 December.
If we have time to debate this report this morning, then we must vote at lunch-time.
This will enable Parliament to give its response in time for the Council to discuss it.
However, if we are not able to have this debate this morning, if there are too many speakers down for the Napolitano report and the Giannakou report, then I would support Mr Pirker's proposal that we not vote on the matter tomorrow.
It is too important a matter to be voted on a Friday, even though I personally will be here.
I am not sure whether those who, as I understand it, have a problem with the report, such as the French delegation in the Socialist Group, will still be here tomorrow - we might ask them that.
However, if it is not to possible to vote on it today, might we ask the services of Parliament whether it would be possible to have the debate this evening and the vote on the Wednesday of the December part-session to allow us to forward the results to the Council by the Thursday; and might we also ask for the assistance of the Commissioner in intervening with the Council on this matter?
Mr Watson, indeed I have been told that the timing is likely to get us into this sort of situation, such that we cannot vote on the report today.
And this could cause problems, tomorrow morning, for many more delegations than you just mentioned.
Indeed I feel this is not a matter for any specific delegation, and I felt I must make that clear.
Madam President, the Commission wishes to stress the importance of the instrument which we are proposing to Parliament.
We would like to have political support that is as wide as possible for it.
From the Commission' s point of view, and as far as the timetable is concerned, in order for the dossier to be examined by the Council on 2 and 3 December, Parliament' s vote must take place today.
If not, we shall have to renegotiate the entire timetable with the Council, and I cannot tell you what the results of such renegotiations will be.
Indeed that is probably the most disruptive aspect of work in the Union: one can never predict the outcome of negotiations with the Council.
Commissioner, would it still be acceptable it we were to vote on the report on 1 December?
Madam President, we have now heard the Commissioner as well.
That confirms to me and to all of us that we must vote today. We need Eurodac.
We have had Tampere, and we have had a clear statement from the Council and have always had the full support of the Commissioner.
As Parliament, we cannot afford in the public' s eyes, to deliberately cause delays.
We need the system.
We should therefore amend the agenda so that the vote can take place today, as otherwise there would be excessive delays.
I would therefore ask you to take a vote on whether the vote takes place today or whether it is adjourned.
We need the vote today!
Mr Pirker, I feel the best course of action, in fact, is to move on quickly to the report.
The faster we go, the greater the chances that it will be possible not only to debate but also to vote on the report this morning.
I am keeping in mind what the Commissioner has said.
Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, I must come to you. Would you agree to my proposing to the House, if the House indeed accepts, to rearrange the agenda and deal with the Pirker report immediately before your own?
Madam President, I agree, although I hope that there will be sufficient time to discuss my report this morning.
Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, thank you very much indeed.
This is very generous of you.
I now turn to the House. Do you agree to debate Mr Pirker' s report immediately before Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou' s?
(Parliament gave its assent)
Internal OLAF investigations
The next item is the report (A5-0066/1999) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure following the interinstitutional agreement of 25 May 1999 on the internal investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Mr President, I would just like to remind you that Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, already used for the Napolitano report, stipulates that "except in the cases of urgency referred to in Rules 50 and 112, a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least twenty-four hours previously" .
Now, I would inform you that the last amendments to the Giannakou-Koutsikou report were distributed yesterday evening.
The last translated amendment, the French version of amendment No 20, was distributed at 9.52 p.m. yesterday evening.
Therefore, the requisite 24 hours laid down in the Rules of Procedure have not passed, either for the debate or for the vote, so I would like to ask the President whether we are going to enforce an urgency that completely violates the Rules this time as well, because, in that case, we can throw the Rules of Procedure away and decide that we can do everything that is urgent as long as we establish that it is urgent.
I do not believe that there have even been any proposals tabled on the urgency of this report.
I would therefore like to know whether this debate and the vote will take place in exactly the same way as the debate on the Napolitano report, in contravention of our Rules of Procedure. This is the issue.
Thank you, Mr Cappato, for invoking the Rules of Procedure, even if we have already discussed the matter and a decision has been made.
I do not think that we can reopen the debate on whether or not the Rules of Procedure are being complied with.
Mr President, I hope that the small number of Members who are still present in the Chamber will pay some attention to this report.
To tell the truth, given that the issue is considered very sensitive by many, I regret the fact that the debate and what I am about to say on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not being broadcast in any way.
What I am about to say is quite important. The text, which did not obtain the required qualified majority during October' s part-session in this Chamber, has been amended on the initiative of the largest political group, which at the time expressed reservations and demanded further clarification.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, in fact, adopted three amendments by Mr Méndez de Vigo, which, for the purposes of the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement within Parliament, give a special role to Parliament' s President herself, to whom all information regarding the Members will be sent.
In addition, the Committee has adopted an amendment by Mr Nassauer and Mr Brok, that is the new Article 4 of the model decision, and I shall quote the amendment word for word - "Rules governing Members' parliamentary immunity and the right to refuse to testify shall remain unchanged" .
Thus, we have further strengthened the guarantee, which was already present in several parts of the text, of full compliance with the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities - and, in particular, I want to mention Article 10 of the Protocol, which is very precise and exhaustive - and full compliance with the related Rules, in particular, Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, which, in implementation of the provisions of article 10 of the Protocol to the Article I have just mentioned, regulates Members' immunities even more closely.
So allow me to say to those Members who have expressed doubts and concerns that, thanks to these amendments tabled by Members from the European People' s Party, they can vote for this text with peace of mind.
However, I must immediately recall and reaffirm what the mandate given to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was - President Fontaine reminded us too - and the subject of the decision that Parliament has to take.
The mandate was, and still is, simply the following - the decision to be taken is this: to include the interinstitutional agreement in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. our internal regulations, so that it can be applied within Parliament, on the basis of an opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control; to amend the Rules of Procedure by introducing a new Rule 9b and not to amend the interinstitutional agreement.
I would point this out, in particular, to those Members who were not Members of the previous Parliament.
Personally, I am in the same situation: Parliament gave its President the mandate to sign this interinstitutional agreement on 6 May last year, and it was signed on 25 May.
I respect the opinion of those Members - newly elected or already Members of Parliament - who have expressed reservations and concerns about this Agreement, but I had to consider those amendments that seek to change the interinstitutional agreement, which we are simply required to implement as it is, to be inadmissible in committee.
What you perhaps consider worrying, what you will read, is not a Parliamentary decision; it is the model decision that is part of the interinstitutional agreement, already published - with the identical wording - in the Official Journal of 31 May last year.
We have limited ourselves to introducing technical adjustments to allow proper implementation within Parliament.
I would like to conclude by pointing out that, if the experience of implementing this interinstitutional agreement suggests that that some of its aspects need to be discussed with the other institutions again, this can easily be done in the future. Nevertheless, today, I think that we have the duty not to deny the signature with which we confirmed our commitment to implementing the interinstitutional agreement.
Mr President, two questions need to be answered with regard to the new proposal in the Napolitano report.
The first question is: is the proposal in accordance with the rules of the OLAF European Parliament and Council Regulation of 25 May 1999?
And the second question is: is the proposal in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission?
The answer to the first question is an obvious "yes" .
The proposal is in accordance with the Regulation.
The answer to the second question is not so easy.
It was the intention of the agreement to find a solution to the whistle-blower problem, that is to say, to the question of what an official should do if he obtains knowledge of fraud or clues suggesting corruption but - for whatever reason - does not want to confide in his superiors.
We have said that he should then approach OLAF directly. This possibility is now excluded in the proposal before us in the case of Members of this House.
That is justified because the Members are protected in a special way by the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities in the performance of their duties.
This protection goes further than the protection enjoyed by the Members of the EU Commission through this Protocol.
My concern is only that the proposal that officials should approach the President of the Parliament directly, will create more problems than it solves.
It is foreseeable that the press will then regularly ask: How many cases are there and which ones?
If there are none, they will say that they have intimidated their officials to such an extent that nobody trusts himself or herself any more.
If there are some, then they will try to drag each of these cases into the spotlight.
I would have preferred to take up the original proposal by the Committee on Budgetary Control in its opinion for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which this whole series of questions is ignored and only the rights and obligations of the Members is covered.
That would have left us time to consider other questions in peace.
I believe, nevertheless, that given the difficult circumstances, Mr Napolitano has drawn up a very good report and I should like to support him in the vote this lunchtime.
Mr President, I would like to refer to the closing words of the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Bösch.
I believe he is right, that this is an issue that was difficult to incorporate into our Rules of Procedure and that, in the end, it has been resolved satisfactorily.
Of course, there were perhaps other possibilities, but in this Parliament there was, above all, one concern: to fulfil the objectives which we had set.
That is to say, fight fraud, corruption and any illegal activity which harms our Community.
But we are a political Assembly and politicians - as we know well - are subject to all kinds of influences.
We have tried to prevent a healthy, specific political objective from being misinterpreted and misused.
That discussion which we held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the means by which any possible illegal activity could be brought to the knowledge of OLAF, I believe has led us to a suitable means, because a political body must have a filter which can examine whether this information is well-founded or not and whether or not it contravenes the immunity and inviolability of Members.
Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the amendments which we have introduced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs fulfil the objective of reconciling the decision of the three institutions with the characteristics of our own decision.
Please allow me to congratulate two people in particular.
One is the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato, who is in a way the mother of OLAF and of all these regulations. The other, who I consider to be the father of the current regulation, is Mr Napolitano, who has shown great moderation, intelligence and, above all, courage, in the quest for this difficult solution.
Mr President, the overwhelming majority of my group is fully in support of this report which we consider to be one of the essential building blocks in restoring the credibility of the European Union in questions of how it investigates and deals with allegations of fraud; if it does nothing else it will perhaps prove that many such allegations are often, but not always alas, unfounded.
This report applies within Parliament a text that was agreed by the last Parliament, was approved in principle in plenary when we authorised our President to sign it, signed by all the institutions and now applies within each of them except, until today, within Parliament.
In Parliament it met with unanimous support in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the first time it was discussed and the first time we debated it here, every single one of the major political groups said that it supported the proposal.
At the last minute there were some difficulties and the matter was reconsidered in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I believe that the difficulties and concerns that were raised have been adequately dealt with.
May I remind you that the provisions which would apply to Members of the Parliament are, to quote the text itself, "without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaties and in particular the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities".
There is a specific reference also in the preamble to the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities and there is a reference to the fact that the relevant article is without prejudice to the confidentiality requirements that may be laid down for Members of the European Parliament.
Our position as Members of the European Parliament is safeguarded in this respect, and Members who had genuine fears that this would be some sort of snoopers' charter or some sort of a new right given to officials to report confidentially on MEPs with wild allegations can rest assured that this is not the case.
The reports would go to OLAF, be properly investigated and would protect the position of MEPs.
If we failed to approve this today, we would be in the untenable situation that only MEPs would be above the law in this respect: a text that applies within the Council to politicians and officials alike, in the Commission to politicians and officials alike, would apply in Parliament only to our officials and not to Members of the European Parliament.
That would be totally unacceptable and would destroy the credibility of this Parliament.
It is essential that this report be adopted today.
Mr President, I have to say that I fully respect the sincerity and the passion of those who find themselves opposed to this report.
Serious cultural problems have emerged inside this Parliament as we have debated the issues involved.
My group has considered it very carefully and we conclude that it is a technical putting into effect of the agreement that the Parliament has signed on parliamentary immunity, and privileges will not be removed without due process.
All the points expressed in the various amendments are already sensibly covered.
Parliament's assent to this agreement is already five months late, and the public simply would not appreciate a further refusal to make progress and to create a strict but fair regime for the Parliament as for the other bodies.
Mr President, if we decide on this Rule of Procedure then it will be easier to combat fraud and to include the Parliament.
That would be good, as we have fought for it.
However, what we have not fought for and are most resolutely against and where we see the position of Parliament and of the independent mandate jeopardised to a great extent, is if investigations can be initiated against freely elected Members of Parliament, not only on suspicion but on mere supposition if a system of compulsory informing is set up here, if not for fraud and corruption but for overall authorisation, and I quote, "to intervene in serious incidents in the performance of one' s duty".
Just imagine, that investigations against Members of Parliament for serious incidents in the performance of their duties - a completely fabricated undefined legal concept that contradicts the constitutional tradition of each of the fifteen Member States - could be introduced, that investigations could be initiated if Members of Parliament contravene duties comparable with the disciplinary law for career public servants, a disciplinary law we do not have and comparable duties that do not exist!
That is an overall authorisation of an authority that not only exposes the Members of Parliament to all kinds of informing but which opens a system of informing and political agitation that makes a mockery of an independent mandate and a free Parliament.
That has nothing to do with combating fraud.
The Council has attacked the position of the Parliament at its core and damaged it!
Mr President, up to now there has been a succession of procedural errors which I hope will not work to the detriment of the Parliament in possible court cases.
I should like to say to Mr Corbett that a Member of the European Parliament has never been above the law, even if these Rules of Procedure are not changed.
We are always subject to the law and also to criminal law.
That must be stressed quite clearly, independently of our internal Rules here.
What we are dealing with here is the method by which the controls, checks and investigations are carried out.
I am of the opinion that we must ensure that the freedom of the individual Members of Parliament, including those who belong to a minority, must be protected from political pressure from outside and from within, so that they are not overrun with proceedings so that they are in the end so involved that they cannot deal with the situation any more.
That is the classic principle of the independence of the mandate that has been fought for over many centuries, particularly as protection from the executive.
Only in this way is the Member of Parliament able to exercise control.
He must have the right to refuse to bear witness, without any 'ifs' or 'buts' .
This already applies to us but the ways in which it applies partially negate it.
A Member of Parliament can then only if he has this right to refuse to bear witness, keep information to himself and only then will people come to him and tell him something if they know that he must not inform on them.
Only then can we exercise control within the meaning of Parliament vis--vis the executive and we should not ruin this by linking everything - whether officials, the executive or the Members of Parliament in one and the same Article.
If this is adopted here today and the anger dies down, we would perhaps then again have the strength to check whether with a proper goal the inclusion of the Members of Parliament in control mechanisms can protect this independent mandate and perhaps lead to some other phrasing.
This is not possible just now in the heat of the moment and I would ask my colleagues to remember this if it comes up again.
Mr President, I just wish to observe for the record that, in addition to the consequences of this scandalous interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I have also lost my speaking time.
I had entered my name, I had a lot of things to say, but as a result of this outrageous rigging, I no longer have the right to speak.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 p.m.
Eurodac
The next item is the report (A5-0059/1999) by Mr Pirker, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the establishment of "Eurodac" for the comparison of the fingerprints of applicants for asylum and certain other aliens (COM(1999) 260 - C5­0082/1999 - 1999/0116(CNS)).
Mr President, I am speaking here not only as the rapporteur but also in my capacity as the spokesman of the European People' s Party, but first of all as the rapporteur.
Ladies and gentlemen, I earlier appealed to you all to discuss Eurodac and to vote on it today, because Eurodac is a system that finally enables us to implement the Dublin Convention.
In this Dublin Convention, that was concluded in 1990, the responsibility is established of a Member State' s competence to deal with an asylum procedure - according to this agreement, the State responsible is the one in which a refugee first finds safe haven.
Up to now control has not been possible because it has not been possible clearly to define a person' s identity.
In Eurodac, almost ten years later, we have an instrument that makes possible the clear identification of asylum-seekers and also of illegal immigrants.
What is its purpose?
The aim of Eurodac is to help implement what was agreed in Dublin.
The aim of Eurodac is to establish once and for all which Member State is responsible for the asylum procedure.
The aim of Eurodac is to prevent multiple applications and thereby also to stop social abuse and indirectly it has the effect of sharing the burden.
And that too is something quite essential.
Therefore under Eurodac, every Member State is bound to take the fingerprints of all asylum-seekers, all illegal immigrants who are picked up at the border in order to compare whether an application for asylum has already been submitted anywhere else.
The Member States also have the opportunity of fingerprinting illegal immigrants who are found in the Member State itself for the purpose of comparison.
In the discussion, that was very long, very good and very pragmatic, a solution was also reached.
On the vote in the Committee on the Eurodac system there was full agreement, only the Group of the Greens was against the system as a whole and introduced proposals for amendment that were such as to completely destroy the Eurodac system.
They were rejected. There was also full agreement with the Social Democrats on the system, which we were pleased about.
There were proposals for amendment, which aimed to raise the age from 14 to 18 and early cancellation was planned if refugee status was attained.
There was a majority here, which was against my opinion as the rapporteur.
The report as a whole was deemed positive and was adopted in plenary session.
That is, in the view of the Committee, with the full support of the Social Democrats as well, in Eurodac we have an instrument for an orderly asylum procedure in Europe and for combating abuse.
That is all I wish to say with regard to my function as rapporteur.
Now, I will speak in my capacity as the EPP spokesman as well. I am against political groupings always trying to present Eurodac as a system that does not help this monitoring, but is a form of criminalisation because fingerprints are taken.
It is not a matter of criminalising somebody, but giving the Member States the responsibility, giving them the duty of dealing with the asylum procedure and also of protecting young people when fingerprints are taken from the age of 14.
Because only if we know that they are this age do they of course fall under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child or under the Hague Convention and under the protective measures of the Member States.
It therefore has a protective function if we also take the fingerprints of young people and this is in full accord with all the Conventions that we possess.
The Greens are against the system and I think that they are simply refusing to face up to reality!
They will bear the full responsibility if this system and a proper asylum policy for Europe fail.
Let me just say something else, that I consider to be especially important.
I have received from Minister Schily - he is the Minister of the Interior in Germany and a Social Democrat - an urgent plea and an appeal for this Eurodac system to become a reality, with which he went against his own Social Democrats here in the House and against all the others who are attempting not to accept this system.
It is remarkable when one is asked as a Christian Democrat to undertake something here against the Left in this House.
We need the Eurodac system.
I am most fervently in favour of it because it takes us towards achieving a common asylum policy for Europe and the Member States are at their wits end over this problem.
We also have here a system against asylum abuse, against illegal immigration.
If the Social Democrats and the Greens vote against Eurodac, then they will bear full responsibility if there is further asylum abuse and illegal immigration.
Liberals in this House have a number of concerns about the draft protocol that was put forward in this draft regulation.
It carries a risk that it may blur the distinction between asylum-seekers and other types of immigrants.
It carries the risk that it may diminish the protection of those who need it by mistakenly channelling them through normal immigration procedures rather than asylum procedures.
There are certain "legal grey areas" .
The extension of EURODAC to persons who are not seeking asylum is, conceivably, outside the competence of the Dublin Convention, for example.
There is the risk that this protocol, this regulation, may be unworkable.
Member States will have little incentive to fingerprint third country nationals whom they find illegally on their territory, if there is a risk that they may become responsible for them.
Finally, there is a certain lack of clarity in some of the definitions used, like 'irregular crossing', 'illegally present' and so on.
Nonetheless, we believe that the debates in this House, in our committee, have been such that we have a good report drawn up here with the support of most political groups and I congratulate the rapporteur on it.
The Liberal Democrats will support this report.
We will not support amendments 13 to 20: although we share concerns about finger-printing, we believe that the attempt to stop a register being created will fail to deal in realistic terms with the challenges that we face.
Let me say one thing to Mr Schulz who raised the question of liberality.
This is a time for cool heads and good argument.
Mr Schulz cannot deny that we face a challenge in the Union with the number of people illegally present.
We have to find a way of tackling that problem while at the same time protecting civil liberties.
We believe that this report achieves that, and that is why we will be happy to give it our support.
Mr Prodi, Mr President, with regard to Eurodac and the viewpoint of the Greens and the European Free Alliance, I must say that I welcome the subtle distinctions made by the previous speakers after rapporteur Pirker' s introduction.
There are quite a few reservations and observations with regard to this report, including its lack of a social and human dimension.
Many police staff and criminal investigation services will of course welcome this report with open arms as it simplifies their work.
We need to be realistic and we do not deny that there is abuse.
Neither would I wish to see the Greens held responsible for the organised crime in this world, as people will shortly be saying we are responsible because we are unwilling to do anything about it.
This is untrue.
A house is built on solid foundations.
This report hardly constitutes a foundation, in fact, it is even a little reprehensible, in my opinion, although the amendments submitted make it more acceptable and tone it down somewhat.
However, we should not lose sight of the fact that asylum seekers look for safety, need a roof over their head and money to buy food.
The proposal' s point of departure is that asylum seekers are actually suspects.
It is assumed that they abuse the right of asylum.
And this is not proper.
Asylum seekers are criminalised here but they are not criminals.
Applicants are having a criminal role forced upon them, but are, in actual fact, victims, victims of the situation in their country of origin.
Turning now to minimum standards: a control policy as proposed is only acceptable if minimum standards apply across all states with regard to the handling of asylum applications.
Applications should be dealt with correctly and uniformly wherever they are submitted.
The gap is still too wide at the moment.
Needless to say, someone will apply for asylum where he hopes he will find recognition, a listening ear and humane treatment.
Finally, I would like to touch upon protective measures for personal data.
These measures do not apply to refugees at the moment.
This discrimination also promotes criminalisation.
Within our Green group, a discussion has been opened on the principle of fingerprinting in general.
When investigations are undertaken into organised crime, it is necessary to be completely clear on people' s identity in order to track down the criminals and for the benefit of the victims.
Every effort must be made to stop organised crime in its tracks.
Fingerprinting can help us achieve this.
Asylum seekers look for safety and a sense of security and do not wish their name to be on display across Europe.
Maybe in future, a debate could take place on the role of fingerprinting.
Mr President, in our Group we view Eurodac as a drastic departure from the Dublin Convention.
It is now being proposed that illegal immigrants as young as 14 years of age should also be covered by the arrangements in question, while the Dublin Convention is concerned only with asylum-seekers.
In our view, Eurodac is not a prerequisite for enabling the Dublin Convention to function.
It just gives the authorities increased opportunities for exercising control and, in any state based on the rule of law, very serious attention must necessarily be given to the balance between control measures and the rights of the individual.
This is absolutely crucial.
So let it be stated immediately that our Group is opposed to Eurodac.
We hope that Parliament will again dig in its heels over this frontal assault on the UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as on the legal rights of third-country nationals within the borders of the European Union.
Taking fingerprints from people, just because they are not citizens of a Member State, is tantamount to wholesale criminalisation of foreign nationals.
To mix immigrants and asylum-seekers together in a fingerprint register is a departure from the basic idea of the UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees.
Asylum-seekers are entitled to ask for protection.
It is not a criminal offence to request asylum.
And the Dublin Convention in fact relates only to the first country of refuge.
If a fingerprint register is to be established, we do not under any circumstances want asylum-seekers to be mixed together with either legal or illegal immigrants, and we want to propose that, under such a system, fingerprints are taken only from people who have been sentenced for having committed criminal acts.
It is proposed that 14 year-olds should have their fingerprints taken and stored in a register.
We think that this is a departure from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires that we protect children and which recommends 18 years as the age at which, generally, a child is deemed to become an adult.
If a register is to be established, we want it to be possible to take fingerprints only from people of 18 years of age and over.
Fingerprints are something which you take from criminals, and even criminals are entitled to protection.
The rules on the erasure of records and the disclosure of information are far too vague in the Council' s proposal.
If a register is to be established, we propose that it should be possible for a person' s records to be erased as soon as that person has received a residence permit from a Member State.
Let me repeat this once more: we are opposed to Eurodac.
We consider this proposal to be a huge boulder in the wall around Fortress Europe, a wall we want to see broken down.
I can essentially go along with what Pernille Frahm has just said, and we shall also support her amendment which, in spite of everything, does nonetheless mitigate this dreadful piece of legislation we are debating, albeit to no great legal effect, because this is a simple consultation procedure.
I have two points to make.
First of all, I have some questions for the Commissioner.
It is, of course, evident from Protocol No 5 to the Amsterdam Treaty on the position of Denmark, that Title IV of the Treaty does not apply to Denmark, but this is not apparent from the proposed regulation.
I should like to see this matter clarified and would ask that the clarification be included in the proposal.
Next, I should like to ask the Commissioner if this is to be viewed in connection with what is dealt with in Article 5 of the Protocol I mentioned, namely a decision to build upon the Schengen acquis.
If so, there is a definite procedure for how Denmark is to be incorporated into the system.
Is it this rule which is to be followed, or others?
And finally: if it is this rule or other rules which are to be followed, what would be the consequences of a Danish accession?
Is it the case that decisions by the EU authorities, including the European Court of Justice, are binding upon Denmark?
The second point is the fundamental and most important one.
As Pernille Frahm rightly said, this proposal concerns an extension to Fortress Europe.
It is an effective defence mechanism, and what is being put in place is a complete and consistent absence of legal rights for one large group of people, namely asylum seekers, and for a group of other foreigners without, moreover, there being the right to differentiate between them.
There are no elementary rules concerning legal rights in connection with the registration procedure and in connection with the right to pass on this information held by the Member States and the Commission.
I want to say that this is the most repressive system we have experienced in Europe in this century, at any rate in the perspective of the Nordic legal tradition, and we have had our share of repressive systems.
And what is interesting and sinister is that it is wrapped up in phraseology which would have made the late propaganda Minister, Joseph Goebbels, turn green with envy.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this total absence of legal rights is to be established by virtue of conditions in the Treaty which concern and proclaim an Area of Freedom, Security and Justice and which guarantee freedom of movement.
What, in fact, we are dealing with here is the very opposite and, to crown it all, Mr Pirker' s report also attaches importance - and this is the only real amendment proposed - to replacing the concept of a foreigner with that of a citizen of a third country.
Is the reason for this that the concept of a foreigner has negative connotations?
What the realities of the situation are is not so important. What is important is the packaging.
You are welcome to it, is what I say.
Mr President, in my own small country alone, we will have between 35,000 and 40,000 alleged asylum seekers this year, in addition to tens of thousands of asylum seekers of the past few of years who are still waiting for their cases to be resolved, and on top of this, there are an estimated 150,000 illegal immigrants, which means that the problem which we are focusing on today can hardly be overestimated.

We therefore give our full support to the Eurodac database for fingerprinting being set up.
We will gladly approve the Pirker report and I would ask the rapporteur to consider the criticism that follows as minor criticism of an otherwise sound report which represents a good step in the right direction.
After all, it must be clear that the Eurodac database should not just serve the purpose of establishing which Member State might deal with a particular asylum seeker' s case, but rather it should make it more difficult or impossible to abuse the asylum system in the future.
I therefore regret that Parliament has further mitigated the already weakened and moderate Council proposals in its various amendments.
It is completely beyond me why both the Council and Parliament are still a great deal laxer on illegal immigrants than on alleged asylum seekers.
After all, the fingerprints of illegal immigrants may not be kept ten but two years, may not be compared with each other - one wonders why - and may only be used for comparison with new asylum applications within the two-year period.
I fear that this illustrates that, according to some, the Eurodac system should serve, perhaps not exclusively but largely, at any rate, to assign a particular Member State the responsibility of footing the bill for a certain level of illegal immigration and abuse of the asylum system, rather than to render such abuses completely impossible.
Finally, I would put a big question mark over the fact that it appears that some sort of office of the European Commission will manage the system.
In my opinion, it should be assigned to a European police body such as Europol.
Mr President, I would like to ask you to take note of the fact that in this building there are meeting rooms with no screen.
And while there are plenary sittings and meetings under way at the same time, it would be a good thing if all the rooms had screens, if that is not too much trouble.
Mr President, our Group has significant doubts, and reasonable doubts, in relation to the EURODAC report presented.
We have already rejected a report which intended, in unclear terms, and for who knows what reason, to take the fingerprints of the illegal immigrants who arrive in the European Union.
We have a new proposal, this time from the Commission, which makes important advances.
This new proposal says that the fingerprints of illegal immigrants - because we are talking about the extension of the existing EURODAC programme to illegal immigrants - will only be taken in application of the Dublin Asylum Convention, that is to say, only in order to find out whether these immigrants have asked for asylum in another Member State of the European Union.
We are not opposed to this idea, on the contrary, we are not against clarifying whether there is a Member State responsible for the handling of the case if it is shown that a person has already applied for asylum.
But we have many doubts about this massive taking of fingerprints - because we believe it will be massive - of people who have crossed borders illegally or who are in an illegal situation in a Member State.
Therefore, we believe that a little more time is needed to carry out the proposed extension of the EURODAC system.
What we are clear about is that it is not acceptable to apply it to minors.
In this respect we will stand firm.
We will demand that this system be applied only to adults, because minors require other legal provisions if they are not accompanied.
And if they are with their family, that family will enter the system.
Thank you, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
We take note of your request.
There is no doubt that an intelligent building must show intelligence throughout.
Mr President, the whole principle of fingerprinting asylum-seekers, as far as I am concerned, is intolerable.
It is basically criminalising victims, people who are seeking asylum and refuge.
Instead, our priority should be to improve the situation of asylum-seekers in the Member States.
In my own country at the moment the situation for asylum-seekers is completely intolerable.
Just this week the Minister for Justice has announced that he is going to prosecute taxi drivers who carry illegal immigrants.
Basically what we are doing is promoting the whole attitude of xenophobia and victimising people who are already victims.
The report tries to make the protocol sound less threatening, but the principle is exactly the same.
We are criminalising victims.
Fingerprinting is something that is normally done to suspected criminals.
Suspected criminals at least have the advantage that they will have legal representation, they will know their rights.
These people will not know their rights, not have legal representation.
The protocol does not explain where and how fingerprinting will be done.
Will it be on entry into the country, before the border is crossed?
If this is the case does that mean that anyone, anywhere, can be stopped?
This is basically in line with the Dublin Convention.
It was something set up in secret, behind closed doors, unfortunately in my own country - which I am very sorry about.
It basically promotes the whole idea of a fortress Europe, keeping out the so-called undesirables, whereas we should be looking at why people are seeking asylum, not victimising them.
One of the improvements aimed at here is on age.
The idea is that fingerprinting 14-year-old children is completely unacceptable. But even at the age of 18 or 21 it is still unacceptable because these people are not criminals.
You are making the assumption they are.
The whole principle of the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty seems to have been done away with here.
The attitude within the European Union towards asylum-seekers has to change.
What we are doing is encouraging the xenophobia that is growing throughout the Member States of the European Union.
That is a tragedy.
Mr President, the Eurodac project shows the true face of liberal Europe.
A fortress of suspicion and police repression aligned against the persecuted people of this earth.
The computer database of fingerprints is an infringement of individual freedom.
It systematically treats asylum seekers as suspects.
It calls into question the inviolability of the documents held by the bodies responsible for handling asylum requests.
It contravenes the legal protection to which refugees are entitled. Applying even to children as young as 14, it contravenes the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, specifically article 10 thereof.
Who here would dare take the fingerprints of a fourteen year-old kid?
The Eurodac project makes criminals of the immigrants who find themselves without proper papers, without status, often because of the diversity of laws between countries.
Basically, it contravenes all international conventions for the protection of human rights.
With this, fortress Europe is committing the crime of failing to assist refugees in danger.
Is this so surprising for a liberal Europe which arms the Ankara dictatorship with combat helicopters, while at the same time rejecting Kurdish refugees?
Eurodac must of necessity be rejected.
Mr President, the report provides me with the opportunity to comment in this House on the unjustified rebukes against us non-attached Members case by case.
The assertion that we are adopting a restrictive position on asylum, of which the rapporteur was also accused today is simply wrong. Our position is quite clear.
Although it is not necessary to mention it, I should nevertheless like to say to all those who agree with the criticism without knowing the position, that of course our policy is based on the Geneva Convention relating to Refugees. Of course we consider it absolutely necessary to provide temporary protection for displaced persons.
Anyone who needs protection should be protected.
What we do say, however, is that the unsuitable migration policy has led to social problems in conurbations, which we as serious politicians should not ignore.
This criticism must be permitted in a democratic structure.
Because we consider that a fair sharing of the burden is an important aspect of asylum policy, we are also in favour of introducing all relevant measures just as for the Dublin Convention and Eurodac.
We shall therefore vote in favour of the report.
The rapporteur in his introduction said that the objective is to implement the Dublin Convention and have a system of fingerprinting.
My group agrees in principle with that, but we want some safeguards.
Mr Pirker also said that the purpose was to ensure that there are no social abuses of the system.
Again, my group would agree with that, but we want to make certain of this, which is why safeguards are necessary to ensure that there are no abuses by the authorities either.
I believe that there are some on the right of this House who wish to muddy the waters and to draw no distinction between asylum seekers and illegal immigrants, third country nationals.
I shy away from the use of the word 'foreigners', or indeed the word that was used in the translation of the English text.
In English 'aliens' are people from another planet and to be perfectly honest we do not have much of a problem with that at the moment.
There seem to be, though, Members of this House who have no sympathy with either group - and if there were aliens from another planet, they would probably have little sympathy with them either.
The safeguards and the amendments that we are asking for are designed to ensure that any data collected is processed properly and that where people are granted asylum or achieve legitimate status the data collected is deleted.
On the age limit, it is sometimes very difficult to tell the age of a young person, but there seems to be a consensus that 18 is a fair compromise.
Mrs McKenna in her impassioned speech a few moments ago said that we must ensure that asylum seekers and others are not treated as criminals.
Certainly we want to ensure that this new system is used to assist the most vulnerable in our society.
I accept, as I am sure we all must do, that people do not leave their homes and families and travel half-way across Europe thousands of miles away for no reason at all.
They do not do just it on a whim, they do it for a real reason and we must accept and respect the fact that they need support and they need help and assistance.
I hope - and I am sure the Commissioner is listening - we can make certain that when this system comes into full operation, it is used positively, humanely and with considerable compassion to help and support the most vulnerable in our society.
First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Members that in the view of the Commission, the EURODAC Regulation is instrumental to the implementation of the Dublin Convention which determines which Member State is responsible for considering an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States.
The Tampere European Council has called for work on EURODAC to be concluded rapidly, and the Commission considers in fact that EURODAC is an important instrument.
If governments and citizens can be confident that we have effective arrangements in place to decide which state is responsible for considering an asylum claim and to tackle the problem of multiple asylum applications, it will make easier our task of promoting high and fair standards of asylum.
Once the EURODAC Regulation has been adopted, it will be incumbent upon the Council to make similar progress in respect of other asylum instruments.
I, myself, will shortly unveil a proposal for a legal basis for the European Fund for Refugees.
This will provide financial assistance from the Community budget for the reception, the integration and the voluntary return of refugees, displaced persons and asylum-seekers which is a relevant instrument to give a human dimension to the asylum policy of the Union, as one Member of the House requested just a few moments ago.
I shall also be unveiling a proposal for an instrument on asylum procedures after we have received the opinion of Parliament on our working document towards common standards on asylum procedures.
I shall also unveil a new proposal on temporary protection which will draw on our experiences during the Kosovo crisis.
Progress on the EURODAC Regulation must be accompanied by real progress in other areas so that we can gradually attain our goal of creating a common European asylum system.
A proposal which provides for the systematic fingerprinting of asylum seekers and certain other categories of third country nationals clearly raises sensitive and difficult issues.
We therefore need to ensure the highest standards of fairness and transparency for all those affected by the regulation.
In particular the most rigorous of data protection standards are required.
When we converted the EURODAC Convention and Protocol into a Community Regulation, we amended it to bring it fully into line with Community law on data protection including the new Treaty Article 286 on data protection arrangements for the Community Institutions.
It is up to the authority provided for in Article 286 to ensure the appropriate and adequate use of these data and the application of Community rules.
We also introduced new provisions on monitoring and evaluation under which the Commission will report regularly to the Parliament and to the Council on the concrete functioning of EURODAC.
I am grateful to the Committee on Citizens' Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and to their rapporteur, Mr Pirker, for the report on the EURODAC Regulation.
The report contains a number of useful amendments which I believe will help us to improve the text of the Regulation.
The Commission can accept amendment No 1 to avoid the term 'alien' and instead refer to third country nationals, although we will have to make it clear that the Regulation also covers stateless persons.
We can also accept amendment No 2 to the title which introduces a reference to the Dublin Convention.
We can also accept the principle of amendment No 6 which makes it clear that there is only a match if fingerprints are identical and not if they are just similar, and we accept also the principle of amendment No 12 which is intended to make it clear that data must never be sent to an asylum applicant's country of origin or used within a Member State for an unrelated purpose.
I take this opportunity to assure Mrs Terrón i Cusí that illegal immigrants' fingerprints are only used for the specific purpose of the Dublin Convention - which means for analysis - if they have requested a demand for asylum in another Member State.
The two issues which have been of most concern to the Parliament are the minimum age-limit for fingerprinting and the rules on erasure of data from the central database.
On the minimum age-limit my approach is to stick to the compromise minimum age-limit of 14 years which was agreed in previous negotiations, but to accept your amendment which makes it clear that fingerprinting must be carried out in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Migratory movements of people seeking protection unfortunately involve minors.
We need to ensure that our arrangements for determining responsibility for asylum applications take account of this reality.
In addition, the age-limit of 14 years was a compromise reached after difficult negotiations.
I do not want to reopen the discussion and risk ending up with an even less acceptable solution.
As far as the rules on erasure of data are concerned, the amendments approved by the Committee on Citizens' Rights provide for the erasure of data as soon as anyone covered by the regulation has obtained legal status.
I can accept this in relation to people who are apprehended irregularly crossing the external border of the European Union and who are fingerprinted under Article 8 of the regulation.
Indeed, the intention behind the current text is that this data should be erased as soon as the person concerned obtains any kind of residence permit.
This would include someone who has been admitted as a refugee or under a subsidiary form of protection.
I cannot go that far in relation to data on asylum applicants, but I can accept some of the amendments that have been put forward.
If we were to erase all data on asylum applicants as soon as they were granted any kind of legal status, EURODAC would no longer cover situations where an asylum applicant is granted permission to remain in some other capacity for a short time and, at the end of this period, moves to another Member State and claims asylum there.
But I can accept the amendment which provides that data on asylum applicants should be erased when the person concerned is recognised as a refugee.
Some Member States consider that a problem arises if people who have been recognised as a refugee in one Member State travel to another Member State and claim asylum there.
They have therefore argued that data on recognised refugees should be blocked in the central unit so that statistical data can be compiled to measure the scale of the phenomenon.
I believe that we should take a different approach.
If people who have been recognised as refugees in one Member State seek asylum in another Member State this is likely to be because refugees do not enjoy the right to reside in a Member State other than the one in which they were recognised as such.
We should seek to remedy this by including refugees within the scope of an instrument defining the circumstances in which a third country national who is legally resident in one Member State may reside in another Member State.
I therefore agree that we should now provide that data on recognised refugees should be erased from EURODAC.
Finally, the regulation will not apply to Denmark.
This results directly from Denmark's protocol to the Treaty.
The Commission does not consider that EURODAC is a measure to build on the Schengen acquis under Article B of the Danish protocol.
We understand that Denmark nevertheless may wish to participate in EURODAC, but it remains to be seen what legal formula could be adopted in that case.
The amendments which I propose to accept will strengthen the text of the regulation and I am very grateful to Parliament for the important contribution it has made.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
EU action plan to combat drugs
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0063/1999) by Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, on behalf of the Committee on Citizen' s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions concerning a European Union action plan to combat drugs (2000-2004) [COM(1999) 239 - C5-0093/1999 - 1999/2095(COS)]
Mr President, this debate follows the communication to Parliament of the European Commission' s action programme to combat drugs between 2000 and 2004.
This programme is not of course a magic recipe which will solve the drugs problem.
However, the debate here today may help to raise Parliament' s awareness of the massive threat which drugs represent, on the basis of real rather than imaginary data, and help bring about both short- and long-term improvements to the current critical state of affairs.
Let me say straight away, Mr President, that we approve and endorse the Commission' s programme; however we have formulated a number of reservations, the same reservations formulated by the Commission itself, as regards the inadequate evaluation of programmes and more general shortcomings in relation to the threat which actually exists.
Over the last fifteen years, Mr President, drugs have not just been a vague threat: the number of synthetic drugs has increased, as has the quantity of cocaine imported into Europe, while heroin is still the main problem. They have become a deliberate threat derived from the relationship between organised crime and drug trafficking, the trade in arms and nuclear materials and the emergence of new criminal organisations from Central and Eastern Europe.
Unfortunately, communications and the information society help the drugs trade.
Clearly, there is no unequivocal solution to this tremendous problem.
What is important is that we understand that, if we are to aim for long-term prevention, we must implement policies to abolish the drugs trade and provide treatment for and rehabilitation of drug addicts, so that we can help make prevention a success or at least stabilise the situation.
The proposal of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs is therefore quite clear.
We consider that greater political will is needed, Mr President, and greater political will mean that we declare war on drugs and drug traffickers without compromise.
Secondly, we have noted that there is a lack of fundamental coordination. The Portuguese presidency therefore needs to take the initiative and create an inter-pillar council which will meet on a yearly basis in order to coordinate all the action taken within the Union and establish a climate of international coordination.
There must be full and correct application of the resolutions of the United Nations Organisation and the Special Session and, Mr President, Commissioner, a special anti-drugs clause which commands the same respect as and is on a par with the human rights clause should be included in all agreements with third countries.
Without greater political will, without this type of initiative and without a more general policy at European and worldwide level, there will be no results.
The increase in the drug problem cannot be blamed solely on present economic and social circumstances, poor standards set by parents or television.
It is a far more complex, far more widespread problem.
Any unequivocal solution or any solution of an administrative nature which fails to take account of the full extent of the real public health problem and the medical aspects of the matter would therefore be a serious mistake.
Organised crime, Mr President, Commissioner, is running at a faster pace than its prosecutors nowadays. It is precisely, therefore, at the political level that we must step up our action.
The policy on drugs must be mainstreamed.
It is not only a policy matter for the Ministers of Health.
It is not only a policy matter for the Ministers of Justice.
It is a major political problem which basically accounts for or is linked to 80% of international crime, while 50% of transactions throughout Europe relate solely to the trade in and movement of drugs.
If the Summit, which we feel should deal directly with this matter, fails to understand that this is a most serious political issue, which stretches far into the future and that our inability to deal with it multilaterally, as we should, has started to become more and more apparent, creating disappointment among our citizens, then we shall be unable to stabilise the situation in due course.
Because drugs, Mr President, will be with us for a long time to come.
What is important is that we improve the indicators, improve the public health aspects and give a larger number of citizens the chance to realise the extent of the threat and stand up to it.
Mr President, the plan of action on drug control has been discussed within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
I would like to establish here once more that the plan of action met with a great deal of appreciation in our Committee.
The prevention of drug abuse is necessary and it is essential to bring down the demand for drugs.
Many within the Committee on Industry are also of the opinion that the fight against addiction cannot be undertaken without respect for the drug user but the Committee on Industry deemed it not to be its task to go into this aspect in any depth.
Hence, the opinion focuses on the Committee on Industry' s key topics, namely trade and research.
As far as external trade is concerned, the Committee on Industry is aware that the trade policy can only do so much in the fight against drugs.
Driving back poverty in the producing countries is an important part of the fight against drugs.
Trade instruments should therefore be deployed, in addition to other aid programmes.
The Committee on Industry is also aware, of course, that the drugs topic within the Union and within this Parliament is a controversial one.
There is not really a European approach.
There are different approaches of Member States and there is a multilateral strategy within the UN context.
It is because of this controversy that the Committee on Industry is of the opinion that headway can be made by means of independent research.
Research can indicate which strategy and programmes proved successful and which did not.
Based on these facts, maybe we can bridge our differences.
One of the points of difference concerns the approach adopted at UN level.
This approach is viewed by many as too repressive. Others, on the other hand, are of the opinion that this fight cannot be fought hard enough.
The fight against drugs equals war.
The Committee on Industry concludes that the general principles of the UN approach are undisputed, but all the more so the policy.
This is why the Committee on Industry is urging a thorough evaluation of the multilateral policy and the treaties based thereon.
It is regrettable that this conclusion is not included is Mrs Giannakou' s report.
Finally, the Committee on Industry would like to express its appreciation to the Lisbon Observatory.
Thanks to the findings of the observatory, we may well be able to look beyond our national preferences.
The Committee on Industry hopes that the Observatory can remain a base for further development of a European approach to the drugs problem.
Thank you very much, Mrs Corbey.
The Commissioner has requested the floor now because he cannot attend the debate.
Therefore, Commissioner, you have the floor.
The Commission will of course be present during the debate this afternoon, but I will not be there personally.
Despite considerable efforts to prevent drug abuse and addiction the drug problem continues to pose threats and challenges on the eve of the year 2000.
The most serious health problems are caused by the use of opiates and, in particular, heroin, amphetamines and multi-drug use.
Cannabis is still the most commonly used illicit drug in the Union.
Infectious diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis B and C have reached high prevalence amongst intravenous drug users.
Organised crime plays an increasingly dominant role in drug production and trafficking.
We have to respond to these challenges.
I should also extend my sincerest gratitude to Parliament, particularly to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, for the quality of their work and the speed with which they have commended the Commission's communication on combating drugs for the period 2000 to 2004.
This will allow the Helsinki European Council to adopt an efficient strategy against this disturbing phenomenon.
The main general targets for the European Union's strategy against drugs for the next five years can be summarised as follows: to reduce significantly the prevalence of illicit drug use among young people under 18 years of age; to reduce substantially the number of drug-related deaths; to increase considerably the number of successfully treated addicts and to reduce substantially the number of serious drug-related crimes, including money laundering and illicit traffic in precursors.
In the field of demand reduction, preventive measures and programmes for children and young people should, instead of focusing exclusively on illegal drugs, address addiction in general, including aspects of alcohol and tobacco use.
Training of professionals from social, health, education and law enforcement sectors is a prerequisite for effective action.
In the field of supply reduction, the emergence of new synthetic drugs makes it necessary to find ways to respond quickly to the appearance of new substances and consumption trends.
The establishment of voluntary monitoring mechanisms for new chemicals used in the illicit manufacture of synthetic drugs, as well as enhanced cooperation with trade, will constitute the major priorities in this area.
Efforts to curb money laundering have to be intensified through the rapid adoption and subsequent implementation of the recently proposed amendment to the money laundering directive.
Following the Tampere European Council, priority has to be given to the prevention of juvenile, urban and drug-related delinquency and to the progressive harmonisation of European Union legislation on illicit drug trafficking.
In the past, Member States and the Commission have given insufficient priority to the evaluation of anti-drugs activities.
This must change.
Evaluation must become an integral part of the European Union approach.
The Commission has already begun this evaluation and hopes to do more in the future.
The observatory in Lisbon can contribute by issuing guidelines for the evaluation of demand and supply reduction activities.
The implementation of five harmonised key indicators - demand for treatment by drug users, drug-related deaths, mortality and causes of death among drug-users, the incidence of drug-related infectious diseases, the comparability of surveys of drug use, behaviour and attitudes towards drugs in the general population and finally, the comparability of the prevalence estimates of problem drug use - plays an important role in this context.
Adoption of the European Union drugs strategy for the first years of the new millennium is not the end of the debate.
I understand that the coming Portuguese presidency will implement the European Union drugs strategy through the presentation of more concrete priorities for the years 2000-2004.
We will, as well, have the possibility of working together with European institutions on the organisation of an interinstitutional conference to discuss the implementation of the European Union drugs strategy, possibly at the beginning of next year.
I hope that on that occasion we will be able to evaluate the inter-pillar Council meeting that has been suggested by the rapporteur.
The Commission's communication represents, in my opinion, a good starting point for a global, multidisciplinary and integrated European strategy to fight illicit drugs on the line that was approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1998.
The observatory in Lisbon and Europol in The Hague are two important instruments that can contribute significantly to our strategy.
I am, therefore, confident that we have the potential and will find the political will to respond to the new challenges in the perspective of the 2000-2004 European Union drugs strategy.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We will interrupt the debate at this point to proceed to the votes.
This debate will resume at 6.00 p.m.
Vote
Madam President, I would just like to remind you and the Members that the Radical Members present - Mr Della Vedova, Mr Cappato, Mr Dupuis, Mr Dell'Alba and Mr Turco will not be taking part, although they are present, in the votes today either.
I think that a Parliament that is not brave enough to resolve a situation where some Members and millions of European citizens are patently discriminated against, is a Parliament that cannot teach democracy, as it would like to do and should do, to many countries that, this very morning, we have condemned.
Report (A5-0061/1999) by Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on draft supplementary and amending budget 5/1999 to the budget of the European Union for the 1999 financial year (C5-0257/1999)
Madam President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission very much welcomes the report by the rapporteur and it especially welcomes the proposal for an amendment, which has been submitted by Parliament, to reallocate EUR 25 million in the financial framework as opposed to the overall transfer proposal.
The Commission regrets that the Council has not yet approved Parliament' s proposal.
It would therefore request the Council to support this proposal in order to smooth the way so that by restructuring and reducing expenditure this year EUR 670 million can be made available for urgently needed foreign policy programmes.
Thank you, Mrs Schreyer.
I am sorry that the Council is not represented here.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0066/1999) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure following the interinstitutional agreement of 25 May 1999 on the internal investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)
(Parliament adopted the decision)
Report (A5-0062/1999) by Mr Schwaiger, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the Communication to the Council and the European Parliament: The EU Approach to the WTO Millennium Round (COM(1999) 331 - C5-0155/19 - 1999/2149(COS))
Madam President, before we proceed to the Schwaiger report vote, could I raise a point of clarification?
A split vote has been requested on recital C from our side, but looking at the voting papers, I think that a word may have been included that should not have been.
The words in the English text that we want to vote on separately are "and socially balanced": those are the separate words.
Some versions suggest we should also vote on the word "fair", but that should be in the main part of the text.
I hope that is clear.
Relating to Amendment No 11
Madam President, I have the impression that the vote should first be taken on the phrase "that free and fair world trade" etc.
Is that correct?
Have you included that?
Mr Schwaiger, I have received requests for split voting, and for separate voting, and I have been asked to take the words "fair" and "socially balanced" separately.
I am therefore complying with the requests which have been made.
Madam President, this proposal is for us Greens an essential proposal.
If "fair and socially-balanced" is omitted, then unfortunately the majority of us will have to vote against this report.
If it is dropped, then an essential part of the entire negotiations is missing from the whole report.
I just wanted to make that clear once more.
Madam President, since the second part is decisive for all of us as to whether we can vote on the first part, I would ask you to vote on the second part first.
Then we will know whether, as far as the first part is concerned, we can vote together with the large group which proposes this.
Mrs Maes, you will acknowledge that it is rather difficult to vote in order to introduce words into a text on which we have not yet voted.
I feel we must be logical and consistent in our approach.
Mr President, can I make clear that the Socialist Group wants the words "free, fair and socially-balanced" included.
We are now voting on Amendment No 11 which deletes them.
Have I understood correctly?
So we will vote against this amendment and in favour of the original recital.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, don' t get so worked up!
This is an essential point which is really important.
From the voting point of view, Mrs Maes is quite right.
Mr Chichester, I am surprised that you of all people wanted to have the point "socially-balanced" voted on separately.
We voted for it by a large majority in the Committee.
However, the only thing that I should really like to see is that the voting procedure runs properly.
I would therefore ask you to grant Mrs Maes' request.
Madam President, I believe we are dealing with three adjectives.
Free and fair world trade is the basis for the WTO Negotiations - that was my original text.
A proposal for an amendment was then agreed in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, where "socially-balanced" was added.
The opinions differ as to which adjectives should be added.
I feel in any case that it should be "free and fair world trade" .
Everyone agreed to that. The question of "is socially tolerable" or "socially acceptable" was disputed.
We should therefore vote on the original text saying "free and fair world trade" and then vote separately on "socially-balanced" .
Then we would have a result on the third point.
I should in any case like to point out that "free and fair world trade" was the basis of all our work and an addition was appended here on which we should now vote.
I think there is some muddle.
The amendment is not the text you read out, Madam President.
The amendment concerned involves removing some words.
What we have to do is make a decision as to whether or not these words are to be removed.
That is the amendment.
And the second part, is the sentence that follows on and not the sentence which was read out.
What we are voting on, then, is whether to remove or keep these words.
President, we can only vote on the amendment in front of us and the amendment in front of us asks for four words to be deleted.
We will vote against that amendment.
No other amendment is possible.
I will explain as carefully as I can.
The original text says, and this is the original text as voted in committee: "Whereas free, fair and socially-balanced world trade must be further developed and consolidated" etc. Amendment No 11 says in its first part: "Whereas (delete four words)".
We are ready to vote on that. I have said that we will vote against it.
There is then a further amendment to Amendment No 11, which is in two parts. But I think we can vote the whole of Amendment No 11 now, which deletes the four words "free, fair and socially-balanced".
No-one has agreed to an oral amendment of any sort.
Madam President, I should like to repeat once again that there was a proposal for an amendment by the PPE.
There was an oral explanation by Mr Chichester, that against the amendment he wished to keep the words "free and fair" in any case and that we should take a vote on that.
The third question is "socially-balanced" , "yes" or "no" ?
We should vote on that.
I have now understood what Mr Chichester said to me.
Madam President, my request was a clarification.
If we get to vote on the original text of that paragraph, if we get past the vote on the amendment, at that point I want to propose a vote on the words "and socially-balanced" separately from the rest of the text.
I am not proposing an oral amendment.
We should proceed to vote the amendment first.
Depending on the result of that, my point is that I am proposing a separate vote on the original text.
So I am not proposing an oral amendment.
I think that that clears matters up.
We have this Amendment No 11 from the PPE Group for the removal of these words, and this is what I shall now put to the vote.
This is not the opportune moment, I feel, in the middle of a sitting, to want to put the finishing touches to an oral amendment.
Indeed I can see that Mr Chichester has the wisdom to abandon this course.
Madam President, I am speaking now because I believe that I can propose a solution that is quite correct.
We are dealing with three terms: fair, free and socially-balanced.
Both the words "fair" and "free" are as far as I can see desired by a large majority.
The only disputed point is the term "socially-balanced" .
That was also what Mrs Maes said first of all, so it would be easiest if we voted separately on each of these three words, then we shall have the majority opinion of the Parliament on each of the three words.
The request itself is unclear.
Madam President, our Rules of Procedure do not allow for a secondary market in amendments.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists strongly opposes...
... the underhand introduction of an oral amendment, with the excuse of clarifying an issue.
Oral amendments require the acceptance of the groups and this group is opposed.
Voting cannot be done à la carte.
Mr Barón Crespo, if I have understood properly, there is a request for an oral amendment.
But there is no need for Members to stand up, matters are perfectly clear.
The request for an oral amendment is rejected.
We take good note of this.
I shall now put to the vote Amendment No 11 tabled by the PPE Group. This involves removing the words we have been talking about.
Relating to Amendment No 25
Madam President, this is about Amendment No 25.
I would like to say that the text of this amendment is entirely compatible with the rapporteur' s text, and, for this reason, I think that it should be voted on as a supplement.
And, because it is entirely compatible, we should vote in favour of it.
Relating to Amendment No 18
Madam President, there is in fact a very serious translation problem because the English text says the following: "Believes that the EU should ensure that WTO rules relating to the agricultural sector do not have an adverse effect on the economies of developing countries and that security of food supply should be considered as a multifunctional aspect of agriculture".
You will see that the French version says the opposite!
This may happen more often than we think but fortunately this was noticed on this occasion.
Please vote bearing in mind the English original.
Absolutely, Mrs McNally.
My impression is that the Members of this House are very attentive.
Indeed they often point out problems of this kind, which are of course most regrettable.
Following the vote on paragraph 29
As a point of order, Madam President, Rule 117 stipulates that either one language or the other must be used.
But the French version is peppered with English expressions which make the text quite incomprehensible.
So, admittedly, in the case of an operation such as Seattle, since it is entirely American, it is only to be expected that the language of empire is going to pervade everything.
But if you are going to claim to be using the French language, then French terms must be used.
Mr Coûteaux, I think I am going to disappoint you, because I am going to put to the vote the first part of paragraph 30 which goes from "Proposes that the ILO' s Declaration" to "WTO agreement on investment" .
I am terribly sorry.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0058/1999) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the preparation of the reform of the Treaties and the next Intergovernmental Conference (C5-0143/99 - 1999/2135(COS))
Madam President, so as not to delay the debate too much, I would like to make an overall comment regarding all my amendments.
I submitted a great number of amendments in French and signed them myself.
Now, I see that the French version which has been distributed officially is not identical to the version I gave to the services.
This is not right.
It is not a translation problem.
Somewhere in the sessional services there is an anonymous reviser who goes around correcting the ideas of the Members of Parliament.
I should like the version which I signed and submitted to the sessional services to be restored.
Mr Berthu, there is no wicked anonymous reviser.
The truth is that two of your amendments were not in fact very clearly expressed, and I shall read them out, when the time comes, so that the Members of the House may see the facts for themselves.
I have been fully informed of this problem, and we apologise for it.
Following the vote on Amendment No 70
Madam President, to save time, now that Amendment No 70 from the Europe of Nations Group has been rejected by an overwhelming majority, could you apply the provisions of Rule 130(7), which states that the President may decide, following the adoption or rejection of a particular amendment, that several other amendments of similar content or with similar objectives be put to the vote collectively.
You may seek the agreement of Parliament before doing so.
Such a set of amendments may relate to different parts of the original text.
This was introduced into our Rules precisely for this sort of situation.
We should now be able to vote en bloc on the rest of Mr Berthu's amendments.
Mr Corbett, I have examined the problem thoroughly.
In all sincerity, I do not think I am entitled to do so, since that would force me to put the subsequent amendments to a vote en bloc.
On the other hand, Mr Berthu who has asked for the floor is perhaps going to tell us that he is withdrawing his amendments.
This would be the simplest solution. The decision is, of course, his.
Following the vote on Amendment No 50 Berthu (UEN).
(FR) No, Madam President, we did not request voting by roll call in order to facilitate the voting.
Having said that, I wish to retain my amendments.
There is no text prohibiting a Member of Parliament re-submitting amendments he considers politically important in plenary, even if they are rejected in committee.
I am therefore entitled to do so, and I wish to retain them.
Madam President, this is the fourth time that an amendment from the EPP Group has been voted against by the EPP Group.
I should like to ask that group in future to check how many of individual Members can table amendments in plenary - 15 different Members of the EPP have tabled amendments to this report, supposedly in the name of the group before wasting our time in plenary.
(Mixed reactions)
Relating to paragraph 17
Madam President, before we go on to Amendment No 5, I should like to point out that we have not quite finished voting on paragraph 17.
There was a request from our Group for a split vote on the last few words.
I agree those last few words have now been modified by one of the amendments we accepted, but we would still like to have a separate vote on those last few words of the paragraph.
Madam President, I believe that Mr Corbett, instead of concerning himself with the amendments of the Group of the European People' s Party, should concern himself with clarifying the situation of the members of his Group.
This would surely be a great improvement.
Ladies and gentlemen, this late in the morning, we need a little humour.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Madam President, we already mentioned this earlier this morning: The important report by Mr Pirker, according to what we have now voted on, although we proposed something else this morning, must in the normal procedure be voted on this afternoon or early tomorrow.
The same applies to Mrs Giannakou' s report.
Two unusual things that will hopefully not be left to some chance majority.
I would therefore request that we adjourn the vote on the Pirker and Giannakou reports and the debates until the December part-session in Brussels and would request that we vote on this.
Mr Schulz, we heard the Commissioner this morning speak on the subject of Mr Pirker' s report.
As far as I know, this evening and tomorrow too, most certainly, many of the Members of the European Parliament will be in attendance, as we have been able to note in the past.
I shall ask Mr Pirker. You wish to vote this evening of course.
Madam President, the same applies to my report.
We have to go to Helsinki with this.
So, tomorrow, we need to proceed to a final vote.
This is the reason why the committee worked so quickly.
Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, we shall not be voting tomorrow, we shall be voting this evening, but since the debate on Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou' s report has not yet been concluded, the case is slightly different.
.
(DE) Madam President, we discussed Mr Schulz' s proposal this morning and voted on it.
For good reasons there was a clear majority in favour of taking the vote today.
Otherwise we would have not had Eurodac by the beginning of next year but the next debates would have been held sometime during next year and Eurodac would maybe have come a year later.
That would be irresponsible and there was therefore a clear decision by the Parliament to take the vote today.
Mr Pirker, I must interrupt you, as I have a proposal to make to you.
Since we have now considerably overrun our time, more or less. I propose that we vote immediately on the Pirker report.
We can do this very quickly, in fact.
Count on me!
Report (A5-0059/1999) by Mr Pirker, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the establishment of "Eurodac" for the comparison of fingerprints of applicants for asylum and certain other aliens (COM(1999) 260 - C5-0082/1999 - 1999/0116(CNS))
Relating to Amendment No 3
.
(DE) Madam President, we asked for a split vote here, on the one hand, with regard to the amendment on raising the age limit from 14 to 18 and for the rest with regard to the expression "national of a third country".
I would ask that there be a separate vote here.
We are putting Amendment No 3 from the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to the vote, excluding "third country national" and "18 years of age" , and we will re-introduce these, if necessary.
Madam President, we shall now have to work very accurately, otherwise the report will have a completely different meaning.
If I have understood Mr Pirker correctly, he would like to reject the definition of a "national of a third country" and the age of 18.
Is that correct?
Please could he just explain that?
Madam President, may I explain?
I should like the expression "national of a third country" to remain in the text.
We had it just now in a paragraph.
I should nevertheless like the opportunity of voting in one paragraph on the age limit.
Because we have declared that we support the age of 14, but there are other opinions, namely to retain the age of 18.
That is to say, I therefore request a separate vote.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Mr President, I have been trying since before the last vote to get the attention of the Chair.
It seems I have to come down to the very front to do that.
It is ridiculous.
I wanted to put that on the record because normally, if I make a mistake on a vote, I put it in writing afterwards.
I made a mistake.
My vote registered that I was in favour of the resolution on the Intergovernmental Conference.
I was very much against it.
I would like that put on the record now, rather than tomorrow, because it is of fundamental importance to me, coming as I do from a neutral country.
I find it very difficult to get the attention of the Chair.
When you are up there you seem to just look at the front and the centre.
It is very difficult to get attention, which is quite frustrating.
Mr President, the result has come about after a whole series of infringements of the law.
The provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been infringed on many occasions by the departments and by the majority of the Parliament.
Moreover, the result is a black day for the Parliament, because through it, what the majority of the Parliament has decided, the Parliament becomes an authority and the Members officials.
I shall, however, not let my own Parliament make me into an official.
If I think about it, the fact that the Members of Parliament according to this text are bound to assist in the work of OLAF and if they are moreover obliged to inform on people, then such a rule affects the independent mandate most profoundly.
I should like to state that such a decision that destroys the parliamentary system can clearly not be accepted but that we, and not myself alone, but many others too, will submit this matter to the European Court of Justice.
- (FR) We have no intention of sanctioning the European Anti-Fraud Office.
Although this office has been established with the excuse of supervising the officials and elected representatives of the European institutions, the way this office has been designated and the lack of any indications as to how the Office itself will be monitored do not inspire the slightest confidence in us.
We are in favour not only of total transparency regarding the operation of all European institutions, but also of the election and the admissibility, at any time, not only of all those elected today, but also all those who have any responsibility at whatever level, from the top of the scale to the bottom, including the Commission in Brussels.
Given the non-democratic nature of the European Union' s decision-making bodies, the establishment of OLAF appears to be a derisory measure intended to provide a semblance of supervision even though there is no real, democratic supervision.
- (SV) If we had had the opportunity to devise the Rules of Procedure and the interinstitutional agreement on our own, we should have tried to create an open and simple administration, for that is the best kind of administration for the purposes of discovering irregularities and acts of fraud.
We should also like to point out that the freedom to provide information which we have in Sweden for civil servants is also a good way of preventing illegal occurrences from being swept under the carpet.
In the situation which has now arisen, we have chosen to vote in favour of the report as a whole in the final vote, for to vote against it could be interpreted in terms of our not wanting to regulate the fight against fraud at all.
- (FR) The Members of the Front National within the European Parliament are staunch in their condemnation of corruption be it corruption of elected representatives, officials or members of governments.
They also condemn fraud or the misappropriation of public monies, the money stolen from European taxpayers.
It is a matter that we know something about, we French, who have to contend daily with the repercussions of the cases involving the Mutuelle nationale des étudiants de France, the Paris Mayor' s office, Elf or Gifco.
This list is, alas, far from complete.
They will, however, be voting against the Napolitano report.
Because they are sick to death of the self-flagellation that this Parliament indulges in, alternating with lessons in morality and a haughtiness that is just as hard to bear.
Because they think that OLAF is an excuse to recruit yet another team of officials, costing more than the cost of the fraud itself.
Because, above all, they consider that there already is a structure capable of taking on the role which OLAF is expected to fulfil.
The solution, obviously, is to give the Court of Auditors jurisdictional power and adequate human and material resources to take on this role.
This is the case of many national audit authorities, not only in France, but in other Member States.
It is true that the Court of Auditors does not get a good press in this House since the President refused it a press conference room, even though he happily gives one to the most eccentric associations, to individuals whose representative nature is highly dubious, or to any old watchdog in favour of the philosophy of the Single Europe on condition that he barks loud enough.
In this matter, as in many others, Parliament has made itself look foolish.
- (DE) The fact that fraud control must be taken seriously is beyond doubt because of recent events and also because the interests of the citizens concerned need better protection.
With this in mind, OLAF should finally be able to commence its work.
We are so concerned about the monitoring of the institutions by OLAF and so little can we identify with the "informing provisions" proposed in the inter-institutional agreement between the Commission, the Council and Parliament and moreover attacking the independent mandate of the individual Members of Parliament.
If it says in Article 2, that "any official or servant of the European Parliament who becomes aware of evidence which gives rise to a presumption of the existence of possible cases of fraud,...shall...inform without delay..." then this compels them to inform.
The planned form of monitoring by OLAF can only be a transitional solution and our agreement will only serve to set the necessary monitoring in motion.
Our agreement does not mean that we approve of the methods criticised, for, as with any compromise, you have to make concessions here in order not to jeopardise the goal.
- (FR) There is indeed corruption.
Both in the left wing in power and in the right wing in government.
The names of the cases tell the whole story: Agusta in Belgium, Urba in France, Palermo in Italy, fictitious jobs in the Parisian public transport network - RPR, the Mutuelle nationale des étudiants de France or Dominique Strauss-Kahn.
But, because we in the Front National do not suffer the anxiety affecting the potential accused in the other parties, we are rejecting the extension of police powers to that tool of the Brussels Commission that goes by the name of OLAF.
Firstly, because OLAF contravenes the idea of the separation of authority, which is the bedrock of Western democracy, with officials who have no legitimacy supervising the representatives of the sovereign states.
Secondly, because OLAF is the thief set to catch the policeman, since the European Commission, at the centre of the suspicions of corruption, is in fact, by means of OLAF, going to be supervising the Parliament, whereas it is Parliament which should be doing the supervising rather than being its target.
Finally, OLAF does not attack the causes of corruption, which lie in the removal of national borders allowing freedom of movement for drugs money, fraud and financial crime.
If we really wish to fight the simple symptoms of corruption, while respecting the foundations of legitimate societies, then there are just two ways:
either the technical route, by transforming the European Court of Auditors into a court of law and a court of budgetary discipline;
or the democratic route, by creating a body at the heart of the European Union, as in Great Britain and the United States, which is the equivalent of the British "National Accounting Office" (NAO) or the American "General Accounting Office" (GAO).
The latter are powerful autonomous supervisory bodies, but are located at the heart of the parliaments, and have a staff of up to 5,000.
So, the expert body does exist, but with a connection to the representatives of the people who alone have the right to ask for explanations regarding the use of their taxes.
Report: Schwaiger (A5-0062/1999)
In our view, the preparations for the forthcoming round of international trade negotiations is not at all satisfactory as regards procedure, and this is due to at least three reasons.
Firstly, we can see the European Union weakening its own position, according to the familiar process, by means of its internal discussions, even before the start of negotiations.
For example, the final mandate granted by the Council on 22 October, makes no mention of defending the principle of Community preference, a principle which had however been adopted by the Agriculture Council of the 27 September, which was itself only partly satisfactory since it omitted the principle of Europe' s autonomy in terms of foodstuffs.
We come down a notch at every stage.
There are many more possible examples.
Thus, regarding our preference system for importing bananas from overseas, the Commission has just made proposals which meet with American demands even before the opening of the Seattle Conference.
In every field, one might say that the internal concessions made in order to arrive at a unified European position, declared beforehand to be desirable, are leading us to reduce our claims even before starting discussions with our competitors.
Secondly, the Commission was given a comprehensive negotiation mandate on a whole series of issues, some of which come under Community jurisdiction, but others, such as services or investment, which are clearly in the remit of national authorities.
Admittedly, it is a mandate for the framing of negotiations and not for the consequences of these negotiations.
Nonetheless, the Council, without explicitly saying so, has just set in train a process which may lead it, if it is not stopped, to an absolute negotiating mandate being granted to the Commission and thus, in application of the new Article 133(5) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, to the ultimate power of ratification being taken away from the national parliaments, but still without clearly declaring this, obviously.
We are currently drifting off our course in the fog, without knowing exactly at what point we are going to go over the edge.
Then we will be told that it is too late.
Such methods are perfectly reprehensible.
Thirdly, despite our requests, we note that the Seattle negotiations are going to be undertaken before a clear, specific and comprehensive report has been made of the consequences of the Uruguay Round.
There too we shall be advancing in the dark.
The Commission did, admittedly, give in on one point, since it is going to proceed to the evaluation of the impact on sustainability, as I was saying, i.e. on the environmental consequences of liberalisation.
That is all very well.
But this study should have been carried out on many other points, such as the impact of liberalisation, in its current form, on the preservation of cultural and social models.
For these three reasons, in these circumstances, we are unable to approve the opening of the Seattle negotiations.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance abstained on the report, which it considered rather wet.
As far as we were concerned, the objective of this report was to give Commissioner Lamy a specific negotiating mandate for the Round due to open in Seattle.
Well, such a specific mandate has not been adequately asserted.
That being the case, we would have liked Parliament to propose a very political specification to the Commission, instead of drawing up a more diplomatic report which deplores, stresses and considers but does not give any sort of mandate.
The tone of the report is still too liberal, then, for us to find any reflection of our own views, especially since none of our amendments is included in it.
The report, thus amended, has significant weaknesses regarding TRIPS.
We can find nothing acceptable to us in it on the subject of intellectual property rights relating to trade.
As regards the MAI, which was rejected by the OECD and which is coming back again, a reinforced code of conduct must be drawn up for investment and strict regulations must be drawn up in this field, and this is equally applicable to the settlement of disputes.
The report does, however, include some fundamental principles which we consider essential such as the precautionary principle, regulations on production methods and procedures. It stresses in particular the labelling of foodstuffs in order to ensure the implementation of food safety, and the necessity of adopting a stance that is more favourable to developing countries.
At any event, we shall follow with great interest the way in which the Commission conducts the negotiations, and even though we still find this amended report too liberal in tone, you will find that we Greens will defend this text most fiercely if Commissioner Lamy should step below the recommendations made here.
- (SV) Free world trade is necessary in order to increase worldwide growth and help reduce the gulf between rich and poor.
However, large numbers of the poor in the developing countries have still not benefited from free world trade.
We therefore share the view expressed in section B that the developing countries' interests and problems must have priority in any extended system of free world trade.
The free trade system is urgently required if we are to reduce poverty and create a more just world.
We therefore consider that the overarching strategies and objectives, as described in the report, for the forthcoming round of World Trade Organisation negotiations are a step in the right direction in relation to the Commission' s communication.
If, however, the objectives are to become a reality, we should particularly like to emphasise section I, to the effect that agriculture must be one of the areas in the multilateral trade negotiations where new possibilities are opened up in Seattle.
We think that what is prescribed in this section must become a reality in relation also to sections 5, 6 and 7.
If this agreement is really to become the development agreement which helps reduce the gulf between the world' s rich and poor States, it is not acceptable to reject, in advance, demands from the other Member States in the World Trade Organisation for a change in our agricultural policy at the Millennium Round
To help achieve this objective of reducing the gap between rich and poor States, frontier defences must be lowered and export subsidies phased out.
The overarching objective in section 37 ought therefore to be that of completely phasing out customs duties on non-agricultural products.
A development like that would be of greater help to the developing countries than the marginal preferences they at present have.
The World Trade Organisation should support the work being done in terms of the global environment by, for example, incorporating basic principles of environmental policy, such as the precautionary principle, into its practice.
It is therefore important that weight be given to section 10 in the negotiations.
- (FR) The European delegation to the WTO negotiations claims to be the defender of the interests of Europe.
In fact, it is merely the representative of the most powerful industrialists and financial groups in the European Union, rivals to the American or Japanese trusts in systematically bleeding the planet dry, but all concerned exclusively with increasing their profits at the expense of the workers in their own countries and peoples in poor countries.
In mentioning the "workers' fundamental rights" and "protection" of these, particularly in poor countries, the Schwaiger report introduces a touch of cynicism to all the rest.
But what of the protection of workers, particularly against the tragedy of unemployment, even in the richest countries of the European Union, precisely those which would easily have adequate means to eradicate unemployment if their governments were not concerned primarily by the profits of big business and by making owners and shareholders wealthy?
As for the claim of being interested in the working conditions and inhuman wages in underdeveloped countries, this is pure hypocrisy.
Any number of multinationals who employ a workforce with a practically zero wage, without the advantage of any form of social protection, in Africa or Asia, have their headquarters in France, Germany or the United Kingdom.
Instead of forcing these multinationals to comply with minimum social legislation, they are going to be content with inviting a few ILO officials as observers to the WTO negotiations.
We shall not vote in favour of the proposed report, nor shall we amend it, since it is the capitalist organisation of the economy, with or without the WTO, which basically is not amenable to amendment.
- (FR) The Millennium Round, which is due to start shortly within the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, must provide an opportunity for Europe, since we are bound by the condition of speaking with a single voice, not only to present itself as unified for the duration of the negotiations, but also to demonstrate the utmost firmness with regard to the outcome, particularly as regards agriculture and the cultural exception.
While, however, the Fifteen have recently adopted a joint negotiation policy in the context of the new round, which promises to be an ambitious one, it must be acknowledged that this basis which looks like the lowest common denominator shared by the Member States, will of necessity suffer a decline in the course of the negotiations.
Indeed, there is no doubt but that this compromise text, whose birth was so painful, will be subject to many pressures from the American side in the negotiations, even though the homogeneity of the Union is only a façade, and the Union has no legal arsenal available to it comparable with that in the hands of the United States, one that is likely, if necessary, to deter the American side.
While the organisation of free and fairer world trade must be encouraged and reinforced within the framework of a multilateral commercial system, it must also ensure that all nations, rich and poor, and I am thinking in particular of the countries of Africa, are guaranteed the possibility of making the most of the advantages which this round of negotiations is supposed to be bringing.
Indeed, although we must wait for the round of negotiations to be completed before passing judgement on the content as far as the results achieved are concerned, the fact remains that, as far as this context is concerned, the overall result could not be deemed completely negative if the nations of Europe were to manage to obtain stricter control of the international regulations regarding competition.
The establishment of universally recognised common minimum standards intended to oppose any action to restrict competition would already represent significant progress.
The European Union' s starting negotiating position, which is ambitious in its objectives, is bound not to emerge stronger from a round of negotiations which is in danger of dragging on and on and getting bogged down, particularly given the foreseeable attitude of the United States, which will not rest from attempting to progressively undermine the mandate which has been given to Mr Lamy and which merely constitutes a unified façade that does not successfully conceal the differences in the interests of the Fifteen.
Furthermore, the content of the final resolution adopted by the European Parliament today includes many points that are not acceptable to France.
- (FR) the debates on the WTO which have just taken place in this Parliament on the occasion of the Schwaiger report have clearly shown that, as far as Europe is concerned, the forthcoming negotiations are concerned with the future of its social model at least as much as its trade.
Similarly for the countries of the third world, the question is knowing whether they will still be able to escape the clutches of the mega-multinationals produced by the mega-mergers and stay in control of their own development.
For the problem is not knowing whether rules are necessary in world trade.
Everyone is agreed on that.
The question is knowing whether the rules promoted by the WTO ever since its creation permit fair and sustainable development for all the regions of the world.
I shall make two observations:
Firstly, the liberalisation promoted in the previous rounds and the increase in the volume of trade have been associated with an intensification of inequalities in development on a world scale.
In theory, the leaps forward achieved by some should drag others along behind, but in fact the opposite has occurred.
The African continent' s share in world trade is less than 3%.
Liberal globalisation has proved incapable of providing a solution to the problem of development and still less of promoting fair and sustainable development.
This is the reason why an assessment of the social and environmental impact of the previous rounds was essential before engaging in a new wave of all-out liberalisation.
If it has been rejected so consistently, it is because the outcome would have been negative.
However, for the European Union, the establishment of an analysis shared with the countries of the third world could have been the foundation for the alliance which we are seeking to build with them on the occasion of these negotiations.
Secondly, the DSB (Dispute Settlement Body), created within the WTO, has demanded that the European Union give up its own standards in fields as fundamental as health and food safety or even its policy of cooperation in the case of the bananas from ACP countries and the outermost regions.
The question from now on is knowing if it is possible to accept a situation where, if one thing leads to another, decision after decision, ruling on everything on the pretext of settling commercial differences, the DSB may end up establishing itself as a sort of world-wide Supreme Court, imposing its views in all areas on elected governments and parliaments.
We would then be witnesses to a real seizure of democratic power.
This is why, in the Millennium Round, Europe must champion another vision of the organisation of commerce and world trade.
To do so it must assert three main principles:
The first is that the objective of this round must be the reduction of inequalities in development between north and south.
In order to achieve this, the rules of the multilateral trade system must take into account the differences between countries in situations and resources.
Free trade without taking anything else into consideration means that the strong get stronger and the weak get weaker.
This is why we cannot accept challenges to the Lomé Agreements and our policy of cooperation in the form in which we have constructed it in the Lomé Agreements with ACP countries, including 39 of the poorest countries in the world.
On the contrary, we must reassert the commitment undertaken towards them during the recent ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
Europe must go to Seattle with a vision of globalisation which is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by a single power.
It must promote a vision based on a multipolar world and encourage the formation of regional associations integrated both economically and politically, as we have been doing ourselves for 40 years.
How could we refuse others what we granted ourselves, after the war, in order to rebuild our industry, our agriculture and our economy?
The second principle should be that the WTO must be "confined" to a strictly defined role, and sectors which should only come under the remit of the sovereignty of states and the institutions established by citizens, because they concern the very identity of each society, should be kept out of its area of competence.
Public and social services such as education or health, but also those where consumer safety and collective interests are involved, such as public transport or air traffic control, culture and artistic creation, may not be taken into account as part of trade negotiations.
We must resist the onward rush towards treating everything in society as saleable commodities.
In the agreements on intellectual property, Europe must resist the patenting of living organisms, it must guarantee that derogations to the general trade regulations for medicinal products used to fight AIDS and other serious diseases indicated by the WHO are maintained.
Finally we must defend the principle of the hierarchy of standards.
Fundamental human rights and the Universal Declaration of 1948, the conventions of the ILO (International Labour Organisation) or conventions on the environment, are in essence superior to the standards governing trade.
It must not be possible to condemn a state for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment, or for rejecting imports proved to be produced by child labour.
On the contrary, it must be possible to take an appeal against a WTO decision to the ILO or to the competent bodies of the United Nations.
We must reverse the unbalanced situation arising from the fact that having multilateral commercial agreements alone has led to the creation of a legal-style body, whereas this was not the case either for the conventions on the environment or the ILO conventions.
Some of these concerns were taken into account by the rapporteur at the end of the debates within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
Unfortunately, in the course of the plenary sitting, the rapporteur and the PPE and ELDR groups introduced a number of amendments into the text which tone down the social and environmental requirements.
Considering, furthermore, the unfavourable outcome reserved for the amendments proposed by myself and my fellow members of the French Socialist delegation and the GUE/NGL and Greens/ALE Groups, I abstained, Madam President, in the vote on Mr Schwaiger' s report.
But I believe that one of the most significant elements, on the eve of this new round, one which distinguishes it from the previous rounds, is the intrusion of society, of NGOs and international public opinion into the debate.
I believe that we should be pleased at this, since it provides the best guarantee that it will not be possible to omit these issues in the course of these negotiations.
For their entire duration, they will remain at the centre of the debates of the European Parliament, I am sure.
- (FR) The new round of negotiations of the World Trade Organisation, due to open in Seattle on 30 November, should provide an opportunity to establish better control of the liberalisation of trade.
But I doubt that this will be the case.
The doubt concerns our capacity, and our real determination, to make the WTO an instrument of regulation in order to make the transition from globalisation sought by the few and inflicted on all to truly regulated world trade which is of benefit to the whole planet.
Indeed it is this doubt which gives rise to my concern that if we do not succeed on this point, then we shall be forced to renege on longstanding commitments to developing countries, particularly towards ACP countries, to which we have been linked for 20 years by the Lomé Conventions.
At the risk of denting our clear conscience, I would at this point like to mention the example of the banana dispute, or the multinationals (Del Monte, Dole and Chiquita) which, with the support of the United States, are flooding the European market with bananas which are the product of slavery, produced, what is more, in conditions of the most dubious food safety and have managed to force us to our knees; a matter in which we are on the verge of unconditional surrender, abandoning hundreds of thousands of growers, not only in ACP countries, but also the farmers of our own Community in Guadeloupe and Martinique, to bankruptcy!
And recent statements by the Commission are not such as to allay this concern, saying, for example, that it is necessary to put an end to the banana conflict since it is poisoning transatlantic relations and because the Union would be sending an unfavourable message to the world as the new trade negotiations are dawning.
Who could possibly be against putting an end to the conflict?
No one, of course, but not at just any price, not by surrendering unconditionally.
The same applies to rum, since we have signed a unilateral agreement with the United States on the import of colourless spirits, and that includes rum, which will inevitably lead in the short term to the economic destabilisation of the entire Caribbean!
What will happen tomorrow, unless we are particularly vigilant, in the case of sugar, which is a crucial element in the economic balance of ACP countries such as Mauritius or a European region, such as Réunion, which I know well?
The truth is, I am afraid, that whatever our fine statements, often with a touch of paternalism, we are on the verge of writing off our policy with regard to the poorest countries and to ACP countries, in particular, abandoning the farmers in our own outermost regions in the process.
And yet we have historic links with these countries.
Let me tell you, it is not just a matter of generosity.
For many of our countries, which are in fact former colonising powers, it is a very powerful moral commitment which we are honour-bound to respect!
Therefore, even though the resolution put to the vote this morning is a text which is perfectly acceptable in terms of the general objective which we have set ourselves, particularly thanks to the many amendments proposed by the members of my group, I did not vote in favour of this text, so as to fulfil the commitments which I have undertaken with regard to the voters in the French Overseas Departments.
- In the weeks leading up to the agreement of this resolution, many MEPs have sought to ensure Europe's stance is one which genuinely makes this a "Development Round" in the WTO, that developing countries are enabled to be full partners in the negotiating process, and to underline that the benefits of trade must be focused to combat increasing poverty in our world.
The European Commission and Council should heed our clear intentions in this respect.
On the extension of the WTO too include investment, I welcome the fact that the European Parliament has reiterated it strongly held position that the mistakes of the MAI must not be repeated, that investor responsibilities according to ILO and OECD guidelines must be dealt with alongside investor rights, and - by a clear majority - a European Code of Conduct for multinationals (amendment 15) be established.
I condemn the Conservative group in this Parliament who sought to remove development considerations from the proposed Standing Forum with the ILO, and incredibly sought to remove from our objectives, achieving "fair and socially balanced" as well as free trade.
I am glad they were defeated.
But the fact that they were prepared to vote for protection of "strict legal requirements" met by European farmers, but against the destructive dumping of agricultural goods by us in Europe against peasant farmers in developing countries is scandalous.
I call on European negotiators to respect our resolution in favour of the principle of food security and for no adverse effect for developing countries in the agricultural negotiations.
Protectionism by the European Union against the developing world is morally unacceptable and economically short-sighted.
It is time for it to end.
- The WTO Millennium Round is an opportunity to manage the process of globalisation.
Globalisation must be managed in such a way that global challenges are translated into global progress.
Specific actions are needed in favour of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, using partnerships to reduce inequalities between rich and poor countries.
Increased coherence between trade, labour, environmental, animal welfare and other internationally accepted regulations and principles of 'corporate governance' through improved cooperation between the WTO, the ILO, the United Nations, the Multilateral Environment Agreements and other international institutions must be mandatory.
I therefore support the view that the Round be concluded as a single undertaking with results being considered globally.
I would prefer no agreement to an unfair agreement.
- (PT) The importance of the negotiations about to take place under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation, which will open in Seattle on 30 November, is of course due to an agenda that covers huge areas of human activity: from agriculture to cultural activities, transport to education and health, copyright and designations of origin to foreign investment, and all of this combined in a global perspective as if these were all nothing more than simple "saleable" goods.
Some issues are particularly important - and they become particularly serious - because the guidelines which it is being sought to impose on them are obvious, such as liberalisation and the total control of world trade, the systematic privatisation of the public sectors and services which still claim to be public, deregulation and free access to public markets.
What this means is that we are facing an obviously neo-liberal perspective, which we are not only trying to uphold but also trying to consolidate and strengthen.
This type of objective is cropping up in such topical matters as food safety, public services and "intellectual property" , always in favour of a blind liberalisation of capital and in disregard of ILO working standards and of environmental rules that have been accepted throughout the world. This objective has dangerous implications for people' s cultural identity and for the actual development of dozens of countries, particularly the poorest.
These facts, of course, are causing growing movements of public opinion which are expressing reasonable concerns and seeking new directions.
There is, of course, no question as to the need for international economic regulation.
It is, nevertheless, obvious that there other ways of achieving this, ways that are quite different from those currently in force and to those being planned, and this places the need for a moratorium on negotiations on international trade relations on the agenda.
Apart from this, this regulation will always need to be guided by principles of cooperation and development; it will need to include respect for social and environmental standards adhered to throughout the world; it will need to respect the wishes, interests, specific differences and different degrees of development of the States concerned; it will need to respect and promote preferential agreements such as the Lomé Convention, and it will need to reject the treatment of some human activities such as education and culture as mere goods.
As it is so vital, it must be made completely transparent. New MAIs must be stopped and some laws must be definitively revoked, such as the Helms-Burton law blocking Cuba, as they are illegal from the perspective of international law.
Now this is quite obviously not the guideline that is currently being proposed to us.
This is why, of course, we are voting against the Schwaiger report.
With regard to the Schwaiger report, a number of amendments have been adopted which condemn the subsidised export of agricultural products from the EU to developing countries.
The VVD (Dutch People' s Party for Freedom and Democracy) recognises that this export can, in some cases, have a detrimental effect on developing countries.
This problem, however, cannot be solved by unilateral restriction of the EU Member States alone.
Other countries also subsidise their export and will immediately take the place of the EU when it discontinues the practice of subsidised exports.

A multilateral approach to this problem is required, whilst nothing is stopping the developing countries from adopting a sound agricultural policy, that is to say preventing or restricting, by means of import levies, the import of these cheap products at the expense of their own agriculture.
- (FR) Like all my colleagues, I voted against Mr Schwaiger' s report.
As our chairman, Mr Pasqua, specified in the course of the general debate which took place during the part-session at the beginning of October, and as my colleague, Mr Berthu, has just mentioned, it is essential, before undertaking a new round of negotiations, to make a clear and specific assessment, one that is objective, and thus independent and takes into account the views of both sides, in order to determine the economic, social, environmental and food safety-related consequences of the previous agreements of the Uruguay Round.
But we observe that, unfortunately, the Council has just given the Commission its negotiating mandate to go to Seattle, and this makes no mention of any such assessment.
When pushed, they are prepared to undertake a study, only a very limited one, on sustainability, but nothing to do with the preservation of our economic and social identities.
The failure to carry out an assessment may be analysed as the wish to hide the very mixed reality of the effects of the deregulation of world trade from the peoples of WTO member countries.
In the course of the years of the Uruguay Round, European agriculture has undergone the most significant reduction in workforce that it has ever known, thus causing the virtual breakdown of rural society.
A number of developing countries are starting to suffer from the head-on competition to which agricultural products of the Latin America zone and of the Africa zone are subject.
In the industrial sector, the concentration of some operators brings about situations of dominance over some markets, and small and medium-sized businesses (most particularly those which form the rural fabric of our country), bear the brunt of the unfair competition produced by the relocation of some multinational, or even transnational, enterprises.
While the need to defend a given European farm model is being asserted, we are avoiding giving it a precise definition by means of Community preference, autonomy in terms of foodstuffs and public health protection.
It is essential to define very quickly a European farm model based on diversified, traditional and healthy food, produced from essentially European agricultural products.
The principle of Community preference must be defended and, by the same token, the system of export refunds including for products described as "outside annex 1" , i.e. food products produced from European agricultural products whose market price is higher than the world rate.
The provision of healthy foodstuffs means that the primacy of the precautionary principle should be clearly established in the context of these negotiations.
This aspect of fair trade based on the absence of dumping for quality, environmental, social and fiscal reasons, if it is mentioned at all among the principles, is not asserted, with all the consequences of this, as a priority objective for European negotiators to attain.
The prime objective for the Europeans, if you listen to the Commission, would be to get ready to make concessions.
And indeed that is what the Commission is already doing, even before the negotiations have started, to the detriment of vital European interests.
I am extremely worried about the European Commission' s attitude.
Indeed, following the Uruguay Round negotiations, we have had a few conflicts with the American authorities.
The three main conflicts concerning the banana sector, the production and the incorporation of genetically modified organisms, and the importation of American beef, have all been negotiated by the Commission itself, against the interests of European and ACP banana growers, against the interests of European consumers and, of course, against the interests of our farmers and producers.
The Commission has acted and is continuing to act in these three case as if it wishes to ensure that there will be no outstanding disputes between the European Union and the United States when the negotiations are due to begin.
This is playing into the Americans' hands.
Instead of proclaiming the need for European concessions from the rooftops, the Commission would do better to forcefully assert the need to set right the errors and omissions of the Marrakech Agreement with regard to fundamental social rights, the environment, public health, in the general interest, indeed.
But this would mean acknowledging that the Commission handled the latest GATT agreements badly, and obviously that is just unthinkable.
The Commission therefore prefers, whether its representative is called Mr Brittan or Mr Lamy, to undermine our positions in advance regarding the precautionary principle, health safety and environmental protection, as well as economic interests in rural areas and, in the case of bananas, to make light of the special historic relations which our countries maintain in the form of international agreements with the ACP countries.
Special, do not even think about it.
The adjective is one that will make Mr Lamy jump with fright!
Report: Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen (A5-0058/1999)
Mr President, in the first draft of the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report on the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, the following preliminary clause could be read, "Considering the rate of abstention from the last European elections, testifying to the growing disaffection of the citizens with regard to the current running of the Union, etc."
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, no doubt aghast at such an admission, deemed it more prudent to eliminate this clause, with an overwhelming majority.
And my group has not subsequently managed to have it reintegrated.
I feel this anecdote is significant since is clearly shows the spirit in which this report was drawn up.
There is a refusal to see that the more federal Europe is becoming, the more distant it is becoming from the peoples of Europe, and the more disaffected they are becoming from it.
Sweeping aside this niggling detail, and many others too, the Commission feels more comfortable in proposing yet more federalism, extending majority voting to the Council, and constitutionalisation of the Treaties.
It is the same attitude of deliberately closing ones eyes to the facts which prevailed when it came to discussing enlargement.
People are acting as if extending qualified majority voting, i.e. extending the powers of coercion over minority countries, was going to solve all our problems.
This is serious self-delusion.
Standardisation has already gone as far as it can within the Europe of the Fifteen.
This can be clearly seen with the embargo on British beef and it is unrealistic to believe that it is possible to go further, with yet more constraints, within a Europe of thirty members.
Two years ago, the Amsterdam Council already came up against this problem and did not manage to solve it.
The forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will be no more successful in solving it if it continues to work on the same bases.
The fact is, we need a Europe which is more flexible and accords greater respect to its nations.
I gave the principles of this in a minority opinion appended to the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report, and the Union for a Europe of Nations Group developed the consequences of this by proposing twenty-one amendments, all rejected, alas, by the majority in Parliament.
But the day will have to come when this House acknowledges the impasse in which it is trapping itself by championing a monolithic Europe.
- (FR) We consider that the European institutions are infinitely more concerned with representing the interests of capital than those of the people in general and the working classes in particular.
Consequently we shall not adopt a stance on enlargement.
It is our conviction that the future belongs to a Europe without frontiers between peoples unified from one end of the continent to the other and freed from the de facto power of industrial and financial groups, this being an essential condition for the people to have real control over their institutions.
The matters left unresolved by the Maastricht Treaty and then by the Amsterdam Treaty, despite its mandate, have now come to the fore once again under the Damocles' sword of enlargement.
Who stands to gain from further integration of the European Union?
The people of Europe who, with every day that passes, watch their democratic and social rights eroded and their democratic victories corrupted in the name of competitiveness and by pressure to support a more and more autocratic structure?
I think not.
With the threat of deferred enlargement or even the withdrawal of the Union behind its original borders and in a bid to win new markets and share the plunder, provided that this can be done without rules, the capitalist system of the monopolies is trying to reconcile its internal differences, which were and which still are significant, in order to serve the common interest: i.e. overexploiting workers and achieving maximum profits.
Both the proposals of the so-called Wise Men and the Commission' s proposals lead in the same direction.
Even greater inequality between the peoples of Europe, between the Member States of the European Union and between the candidate countries.
What other purpose can there be to all these proposals which we hear and which, generally speaking, are incorporated into the report, on voting changes in the Council, on changes to the number or responsibilities of Commissioners, on reduced grass roots representation in the EC following the increase in the number of Member States, other than to strengthen the position of the rich countries of the EU, to strengthen the position of monopoly undertakings, the majority of which are established in those countries and to play down grass roots or national opposition to EU decisions which adversely affect the grass roots and which might even affect national interests?
What purpose can there be to the attempt to generalise the voting rule and the substantive, perhaps even formal repeal of the veto, despite deceptive grievances deliberately expounded to the contrary, other than to restrict the potential for grass roots intervention, at least where it opposes the choices made by the forces of capitalism in "smaller" countries?
How can the people of Europe call for the international role of the EU to be reinforced in the form of a new political and monetary union and a common defence and security policy when the EU is responsible, together with NATO, for the first act of war since the Second World War, i.e. the attack on Yugoslavia, in violation of every concept of international law?
Everyone understands that a currency, in the capitalist world, needs an army to defend and impose it.
This is the purpose behind the proposals for a common foreign and defence policy and an armed wing in the Union.
So that arms can be used to support the interests of the monopolies against the people of Europe itself and of non-EU countries.
This was proven by the campaign against Yugoslavia which, in addition to being illegal, was also unnecessary, at least for the reasons quoted, because it was made glaringly clear by the UNO itself, that all the government and mass media claims were shamefaced lies.
The clearest proof of the type of security being promoted is provided by the Amsterdam Treaty itself, the incorporation of the Schengen acquis, the creation of a Community prosecution service and the keeping of records on citizens' political convictions, ideological stance, trade union activity and love life.
We are opposed to this EU, this lackey of imperialism and big business, and we are opposed to the reversal which this autocracy means for democracy.
The EU cannot change with Intergovernmental Conferences, nor do the proposed negative institutional changes represent a change for the better for the people of Europe.
The people themselves will oppose, intervene and change the power ratios in order to bring down this anti-grass roots, anti-democratic, autocratic structure which exists to serve big business and create a Europe of peace and collaboration, friendship and equality between peoples, real democracy and freedom and economic prosperity for the benefit of the workers.
- (SV) We consider that the report concerning the preparations in anticipation of the next Intergovernmental Conference is a welcome initiative by the European Parliament.
The requirements in the report extend beyond what the European Council considers ought to be on the agenda for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
We also consider that it is far-reaching on a number of points.
Section 13 (on providing the EU with a constitution and dividing the texts of the Treaties into two parts): We want to point out and clarify the fact that the only acceptable procedure when it comes to the constitutional part is unanimity.
Section 14 (on the revision of the Treaties): We consider that unanimity shall prevail when the Treaties are revised in accordance with section 13 a.
Section 17 (last part): We consider that unanimity shall apply not only in the constitutional part but also, for example, in the case of foreign and security policy.
Section 26, last part, may be interpreted in terms of the provision of reciprocal military guarantees.
We consider this to be unacceptable.
The EU has neutral and non-aligned States among its Member States.
For these, it would be inconceivable that resources should be created for reciprocal military guarantees within the context of the European Union' s security and defence policy.
Moreover, we do not consider that a precise and binding timetable for the common foreign and security policy is required over and above what was stated in the Cologne document.
Where section 27 is concerned, we view as considerable progress the fact that the so-called Petersberg Tasks in the Cologne document (humanitarian and rescue tasks, peace-keeping tasks and tasks of combat forces in crisis management, including peace-making) are to be incorporated into the EU' s range of tasks.
This demonstrates that the EU is, in the first place, a political, social and economic project, including when it comes to conflict and crisis management.
The Petersberg Tasks mean that non-aligned and neutral States have an opportunity to participate in conflict and crisis management and, for that reason, there is no basis for integrating the WEU fully into the European Union.

- (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against Mr Dimitrakopoulos' s and Mr Leinen' s report.
The enlargement of the EU is an historic opportunity to create a peaceful, stable and cooperative Europe.
At the same time, it is the EU' s greatest challenge to date.
A change to the Treaties is a prerequisite for preparing the EU to admit the new Eastern and Central European countries.
It is now 10 years since the Berlin Wall came down.
We agree to the timetable which has been proposed so that the Intergovernmental Conference might be concluded by the end of the year 2000.
It must not be formalities such as changing the Treaties which postpone admission of the new countries.
That is why we must also be careful not to place obstacles or stumbling blocks in the way of the Intergovernmental Conference's ending on time and of its results being approved in the individual countries in accordance with the regulations in the respective countries' constitutions.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos' s and Mr Leinen' s report paves the way for a very thorough overhaul which we do not think it will be possible to implement within the established time frame.
We have therefore voted against it. The many amendments and the many different opinions which have been expressed in connection with the vote today illustrate as clearly as one could wish the problems which a very comprehensive agenda would entail.
As members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, we have voted, together with our fellow party members, for and against a range of amendments.
We have done so because we want European development to move in a characteristically social democratic direction.
This does not however alter our general view of the report.
There are however a number of points which we must clearly reject, including initiatives which remove the basic principle that it is the Member States which, in accordance with their respective constitutions, should enter into and amend the Treaty concerned.
We must also clearly repudiate the idea of the EU' s being made into a defensive alliance.
This is not a task for the EU but for NATO.
- (DA) I have voted against this decision for the reasons contained in the minority prior opinion delivered by Mr Georges Berthu of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group.
For technical reasons, it was only possible for Mr Georges Berthus' prior opinion to be delivered in the Committee on behalf of the French members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group.
However, the minority prior opinion fully covers my points of view, a fact which I should like to be noted in the relevant record and minutes.
- (SV) The Intergovernmental Conference is a conference between the Member States' governments.
It is the Member States' parliaments which are to decide whether its results are to be approved.
We cannot therefore accept that the European Parliament should be given any form of right to make decisions on questions concerning the Treaties.
We also oppose the proposal in the report to the effect that the EU should become a legal entity.
In the same way, the report' s ideas about creating a military EU are alarming and unnecessary.
The last election to the European Parliament, in particular, showed that EU citizens are some distance away from sharing many Members of the European Parliament' s ideas about a federal EU.
EU citizens are still focused on the political debate taking place in the national arena.
The EU debate is reserved for a small political élite.
We therefore reject the fundamental features of the resolution.
- (DE) The proposals in the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report with regard to the reform of the Treaties in their institutional core areas provide for an extension of the qualified majority decision in the Council.
Moreover, according to the report, international law as such should be amended, as the Parliament should be granted a right of approval with regard to the conclusion of future Treaties.
This and many other problem issues fundamentally question the role of the Member States of the European Union as "Masters of the Treaties" .
We non-attached Members therefore reject this report.
- (PT) I do not think that the report which has been approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and submitted for the approval of this plenary sitting merits a positive response because:
1 - It makes requirements for revision beyond those that are laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, in such broad and general terms that it is not clear what a new "full" agenda is.
Particularly because it omits points for revision that I consider to be essential and that were agreed on in the opinions of other Parliamentary Committees, such as a revision of own resources, a revision of social cohesion, reform of the CAP, the extension of first Pillar competences in terms of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, reform of the legal system etc...
2 - The revision centres on an agenda that essentially only concerns issues of decision-making power and a corresponding new balance between Member States, which will reduce, in the name of fairness, the weight of economically less developed States in favour of the more economically powerful ones, to which it is being attempted to give the mechanisms for strengthening their influence.
3 - Consequently, it accepts, by giving the Commission carte blanche to propose it, a redistribution of the weighting that each State holds in the wake of what can already be seen in the administrative and operational organisation of the Community executive, which threatens the historical and constituent principle of the European project which has always successfully stood firm on there not being proportionality between population and the weighting of votes.
4 - Consistent with the positions that I have always maintained in Parliament, regarding a revision of Maastricht and Amsterdam, with the aim of keeping sacrosanct the founding historical balance between large and small countries, I cannot approve this resolution which will open up a "Pandora' s box" for a Treaty that accepts as fair the supremacy of some States over others in breach of the principle of the equality of all European citizens.
That is why I voted against it!
- (PT) The new Intergovernmental Conference which is due to open at the beginning or in the middle of next year' s first term obviously takes on great importance for the Community agenda for the near future.
Not so much because the issues are new - some of them were included in the last IGC and not resolved - but certainly because of the complexity and sensitive nature of the issues that constitute the raison d' être of the forthcoming conference.
With the argument for enlargement, the realisation of which does not present us with any fundamental problems, but which we do not envisage being achieved without consequences at various levels - and in the name of efficiency and democratic behaviour, an amendment to the Treaties, particularly in the institutional domain, is being aimed for. This means giving up unanimity and extending decision making by qualified majority to new areas; it means a new weighting of votes in Council decision making by qualified majority; and it means changing the composition and functioning of the institutions in terms of the number of Commissioners, the Council Presidency, the composition of the EP or even the choice of working languages.
These are, in fact, changes that essentially target issues of power and influence within the EU and, where possible, aim to make viable or consolidate political boards of management around the largest and richest Member States.
The marginal role that, in this context, it is sought to give to smaller, less developed countries causes us, naturally, to take a very reserved position, one of concern and even outright opposition to the solutions that are being recommended.
Our position is further reinforced by the solutions sought by some people in the area of security and defence and which aim for a militarisation of the EU, which would thus be consolidated as a European pillar of NATO, a position that we also reject.
- (SV) I cannot vote in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report for reasons which include the following.
The report has a clear supranational character.
I support cooperation between States, but not the supranational dimension which the rapporteurs advocate and which was clearly rejected in the latest EU election.
I also oppose the demands for common military defence, especially in sections 26 and 27 which require a "binding timetable" for a common defence and security policy which is to guarantee the EU' s external borders.
Nor can I accept that the WEU should be integrated in such a way that the EU might in the future take measures with the help of credible military resources.
No exception is to be made for Article 5 which prescribes a mutual responsibility for intervening militarily if another Member State is attacked.
Sweden is militarily non-aligned, aiming at neutrality in times of war, and may in no circumstances take part in common military defence.
I consider that it should only be possible to revise the EU' s statute through a unanimous decision in the Council of Ministers.
Finally, I consider that Parliament ought to concentrate on the changes which must take place if we are to cope with decision making in an enlarged EU.
Report: Pirker (A5-0059/1999)
Mr President, I abstained in the voting on the Eurodac report.
I did not vote for it because I do not find the procedure and a number of regulations acceptable.
Of course I regret that people have not seized the opportunity of acquiring a wider consensus on this important issue. Because it is necessary for us to be able to take action against those who cross the borders of the European Union with criminal intentions and fingerprints may well offer a solution in this respect.
This is why I have abstained in a number of crucial amendments, although I agree with the fundamental attitude of my group, who are unhappy about the fact that everyone is being tarred with the same brush.
- (SV) We should like to emphasise that introducing a system for comparing asylum seekers' fingerprints is not in itself a guarantee of achieving the humane and generous asylum policy we are aiming for and which would mean that Member States showed solidarity in giving asylum seekers the right to sanctuary.
In order to achieve an asylum policy of this kind, other measures and far-reaching efforts are required to further agreement between the Member States on the need for a generous and humane asylum policy.
We consider however that the establishment of Eurodac should be seen in the light of the opportunity to achieve such a humane and generous asylum policy within the European Union.
In the changes to the Commission' s proposal, which find expression in the report, we see reasons for backing the report. These changes will mean that it will not be possible for minors to be subjected to registration and that the right to personal integrity will be strengthened.
- (DA) The Danish delegation wishes to express its full support for the establishment of Eurodac for the purposes of comparing asylum seekers' and certain other foreigners' fingerprints.
Eurodac will be a significant tool for ensuring that the Dublin Convention functions efficiently.
Given the selected legal basis for the agenda, we have declined - out of respect for the Danish reservation in the legal sphere - to participate in the final vote.
We have noted with great satisfaction that, at the meeting in the Council (legal and home affairs) on 29 October 1999, the Danish government announced that it would participate fully in the Eurodac partnership on an intergovernmental basis.
. (PT) With the argument that we need to simplify the implementation of the Dublin Convention, the Council is trying to revive previous attempts to restrict the fundamental rights of citizens of non-EU countries by means of the creation of a mechanism for collecting fingerprints controlled by a central unit, which will cover not only refugees and asylum seekers but all citizens of third countries who are illegally present.
The Council' s endeavour to address fundamental rights by including children aged 14 and above is therefore blind.
But even with the minor amendments that have been approved by the European Parliament, including a minimum age limit of 18 years and a limit on the number of comparisons made of fingerprints to prevent more opportunities for error, this proposal that aims to create a Fortress Europe, closed to other citizens is unacceptable.
As the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market states, in normal circumstances, fingerprints will only be allowed to be taken from criminals or from individuals suspected of having committed crimes and not from asylum seekers, refugees or citizens of third countries who are illegally present within the territory or on a Member State' s border.
Thus, the protection of the fundamental rights of the individuals concerned requires that we do not proceed with the creation of a central control system for personal data because, in principle, none of those people may be treated as a criminal or be suspected of being one.
To make the situation worse, no measures for monitoring and protecting data are being proposed, which leaves open the question of how we can guarantee the implementation of effective sanctions which will serve as a deterrent against actions which are not authorised by the central unit.
This is the reason I have voted against this report.

- (FR) We voted against Mr Pirker' s report for, essentially, three reasons.
Firstly, because the amendments to the proposal for a regulation are far too liberal.
Next, because, at the insistence of the Socialist/ecologist/Communist government of my country, to my great shame, the regulation itself scandalously omits the filing of the fingerprints of illegal immigrants monitored on the territory of the Union.
Finally, because the text entrusts the management of Eurodac to a handful of Commission officials.
You have done away with internal borders.
In building the Europe of Brussels, Maastricht and Amsterdam, you have created an area of high insecurity where illegal immigrants, drugs, trafficking of many different kinds, and crime may circulate freely, any old how.
The steps you are proposing today not only through the Pirker report, but also through the reports on drugs or on the counterfeiting of travel documents are pathetic, given the real extent of the dangers to which you are exposing the citizens of Europe.
The only solution is to re-establish checks at the internal frontiers of the Community; to give the Member State police services adequate human, financial and material resources to fulfil their role of protecting honest citizens, and to cease giving the irresponsible parties of Brussels any sort of jurisdiction over matters of the police, justice, immigration and residence of aliens.
- (NL) The Dutch delegation in the PSE would hereby declare that it is unable to agree with the Pirker report approved today, on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning the establishment of "Eurodac" for the purpose of comparing fingerprints of asylum seekers and of certain other aliens.
We are quite convinced that extending the Eurodac system to cover groups of aliens other than asylum seekers is not the right way forward.
(The sitting was adjourned at 2.35 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
Topical and urgent debate
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Millennium Bug: military, civilian and nuclear sectors
The next item is the joint debate on four motions for resolution on the Millennium bug: military, civilian and nuclear sectors:
B5-0268/1999 by Ms Plooij-van Gorsel, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the year 2000 computer problem and possible Europe-wide consequences;
B5-0268/1999 by Ms Theorin, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the year 2000 computer problem and de-alerting all nuclear forces (B5-0276/1999);
B5-0268/1999 by Ms Hautala, Ms Lucas, and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on the year 2000 computer problem and possible Europe-wide consequences (B5-0292/1999);
B5-0303/1999 by Mr Chichester, Mr Morillon, and others, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, on the Year 2000 computer Bug and its possible effects.
Mr President, Commissioner, only 43 days to go to 1 January 2000.
A date which many are looking forward to.
But before we can open the champagne with peace of mind at the turn of the millennium, specific European action in the civil and military nuclear sectors is desperately needed.
Within the European Union and the United States, the problems have been identified in good time. However, this has been the case to a lesser extent in Central and Eastern Europe.
The millennium problem in the nuclear energy sector should primarily be tackled by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
This UN organisation is the designated body for worldwide nuclear issues.
However, the IAEA has indicated that it has no funding for specific support to solve problems in Central and Eastern European countries.
The question remains as to whether these countries are themselves putting enough money into tackling the millennium bug.
Russia, in particular, is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy.
Earlier this year, Parliament quizzed the then Commissioner, Mr Van den Broek, concerning the EU' s role in this transnational problem.
His reply was that the IAEA has drawn up an inventory of potential problems.
I now have three questions for the Commissioner.
Firstly, does the Commission have the results of this inventory?
If so, I would like to ask the Commissioner to provide an outline thereof.
Secondly, is the Commission conducting negotiations with governments in Central and Eastern Europe?
What concrete action has ensued therefrom?
Thirdly, what is the cost involved to the European Union?
I thank you and await your reply.
Mr President, nuclear weapons are the weapons of the Cold War, but in spite of the fact that the Cold War is over, nuclear weapons are still there.
Thousands of these weapons are to be found on aircraft, on aircraft carriers and on land, ready for firing, despite the fact that there are no threats to use nuclear weapons.
To have nuclear weapons ready for immediate firing is a very dangerous situation, mainly because nuclear weapons can be released by mistake.
This has come close to happening on a number of occasions.
As recently as 1995, the Russians mistook a Norwegian test rocket for American nuclear weapons and went onto a full-scale war footing in Russia.
Mr Yeltsin had to be woken up in the middle of the night but, very fortunately, the mistake was discovered before he decided to fire any nuclear weapons.
The risk of nuclear war by mistake was one of the reasons for the Canberra Commission' s proposal that no nuclear weapons should any longer be held in readiness for firing.
This view was promoted in particular by the man formerly responsible for the United States' strategic nuclear weapons, General Lee Butler, who himself literally had his finger on the nuclear button for many years.
He knew how near we had been to unleashing a nuclear war by mistake.
The second demand we made in order to reduce the risk of nuclear war was to the effect that all nuclear weapons should be separated from their weapon carriers so that sufficient time might be made for serious political deliberations.
These two demands ought to be put into effect immediately.
The reasons are that computer errors in nuclear weapons systems precisely at the turn of the millennium can by mistake lead to nuclear war.
The early warning systems, which consist of a complex network of satellites, infra-red detectors and horizontal radar rely mainly upon the commercial electricity network.
Even if the Pentagon has double-checked millions of computer components, full safety cannot be guaranteed; nor can it be guaranteed in Russia.
Because of these serious defects in its early warning system, Russia cannot detect American intercontinental missiles for a period of three hours per day.
Nuclear power too relies upon the commercial electricity network in order, for example, to maintain the supply of cooling water and to cool down the radioactive core and the spent nuclear fuel.
If only a part of this protective network is knocked out because of computer errors, an estimated 100 metric tons of heavy uranium core in the reactor will melt down within two hours if the two reserve diesel generators do not function.
Unfortunately, these reserve diesel generators are only 85 per cent reliable.
What must happen now is for the world' s nuclear powers no longer to have their nuclear weapons primed for firing and for them to separate the warheads from the weapon carriers, at least for the period of the turn of the millennium.
Great Britain has already taken the decision to do this.
Nuclear power stations too must be temporarily closed down or supplied with protective mechanisms at the turn of the millennium.
It is this with which the resolution is concerned.
A decision no longer to have any nuclear weapons primed for firing and to remove their warheads (that is to say, to separate the nuclear weapons from the weapon carriers) may at the same time be the beginning of serious nuclear disarmament.
Mr President, I support this compromise resolution on the year 2000 computer problem.
Unfortunately, this resolution is not sufficient to do justice to all the important aspects of this subject.
For this reason, I would mention three points in particular that are of great importance.
The Japanese government has called on the people to stockpile purchases.
That shows that the risk associated with the millennium bug is incalculable, and that also applies to Europe of course.
It is a matter of great urgency that instructions be issued on how to act and that we discuss what could happen.
Secondly, where is the reply from the EU to the desperate call for help from 27 African states on 21 October this year?
They are also asking the industrialised countries for help in overcoming their Y2K problem.
Thirdly: The main question is, however, where did they get this problem from?
This not only applies to Africa but to other countries in the "developing" world.
In all analyses of and discussions on this subject, the developing countries do not play a part.
But in fact they will be the hardest hit by the change in the date because they have been given old computers from the rich Northern countries that are not year 2000 compliant.
The serious effect of this will be that food supplies will not be guaranteed and the internal stability of many countries will be threatened.
43 days before the turn of the century and we are still far from a solution to this problem.
Here we see the dark side of the so-called global village of information technology.
Old computers are handed over, along with responsibility.
I expect rapid action.
That not only applies to the Y2K problem, because the next problem is almost upon us.
Many computers have not stored the date of 29 February in the year 2000.
Everyone is talking about the Y2K problem, the millennium bug, but this problem is not being prepared for at all and it could have much more serious consequences as a result of nobody being prepared for it.
Mr President, when I was asked to take part in this debate, my initial response was to decline, since I considered that the alarms raised were the result of some millennium phantasmagoria blown up out of proportion by lobbies with a lot to gain from it, including, occasionally, by exploiting the credulity of their clientele for financial gain.
If, in the end, I have agreed to associate myself to the resolution to be put to the vote in this House, it is because I have been able to gauge the real feeling of some part of public opinion world-wide. These concerns, combined with the statements of our fellow Member on the subject of the reaction of the Japanese Government, and of other international bodies, inviting people to take precautions and to lay in stocks in expectation of the anticipated end of the world, have convinced me that the precautions advocated by this Parliament are, in their wisdom, likely to soothe fears and may therefore prove useful.
Neither the age of a plant nor its location, nor indeed the state-of-the-art design are any guarantee of Y2K date compliance.
I would not like to be in this building at midnight on 31 December - a mere 43 days from now.
Lifts, fire alarms - what would work, if anything? There is a serious point to my jesting.
We only have to think about it.
This is a modern state-of-the-art multi-million plant.
In Ireland successive governments have expressed their concern to UK governments concerning the accident rate at the BNFL institutions, particularly the accident rate at Sellafield on the UK's least-populated west coast, only a few miles across from our most populated east coast.
You may laugh, Mr President, but I am serious.
It is not a major credible accident I have in mind and I do not mean to be alarmist. But I have to put on record my lack of confidence in the British nuclear industry's safety record.
As a sovereign, non-nuclear nation, we in Ireland have a right to self-determination in terms of our people's health and environment.
Consultation and communication between our two countries over the years regarding the British nuclear programme have not been good.
A certain high-handed arrogance has been apparent despite public relations by Sellafield in recent years.
I conclude by saying that all nuclear nations need to state clearly and honestly their programmes for Y2K date compliance, to assure their own and neighbouring nations of their readiness.
Even at this late stage it is better we know the problems than adopt a head-in-the-sand approach.
The first thing I want to say is how warmly I welcome this Parliament resolution.
This will send a clear signal around the world about how seriously we take the Y2K issue, and it will hopefully act as an example for others to follow.
Time, however, is clearly running out.
That means however good intentions are now there is bound to be a risk of failures.
In particular, the high level of computer interconnections between countries, particularly in the western world, makes it impossible to predict exactly what the failures might be and where they could occur.
The higher the level of integration, the higher the level of unpredictability.
The situation in Eastern Europe is also far from reassuring.
The lack of information coming from there worried the Commission as late as June this year, and the further east you go, the more worrying the situation gets.
The safest approach is to turn off these plants at the millennium, but how does Lithuania turn off 75% of its generation capacity from Ignalia?
By leaving people in the dark without water?
The West must offer assistance, so I particularly welcome this resolution's call on OECD countries to provide resources for this.
I will finish very quickly with an anecdote that would be funny if were it not so serious.
The US and the Russians recently set up some hotlines them so they could liaise together over Y2K problems, and in all but one of the seven hotlines they set up, they discovered Y2K problems!
Nothing will be certain in the weeks ahead, we must act now to reduce the risks around the world and I welcome the contribution this resolution will make to the process.
Mr President, I shall answer your questions and contributions on those matters which fall within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
The way we see the situation in the Member States, the nuclear candidate countries with nuclear facilities and in the newly independent states is as follows.
Let me first point out that very few nuclear power plants do in fact use a computer-based system for the essential part of their safety system.
The Member States which have nuclear power plants have been working on this question for at least two years, and the information in our possession indicates that the necessary corrective measures have by now been practically completed, as have all works to do with emergency planning.
In this matter, the Commission has promoted exchanges of know-how and of good practice, but we did not consider it useful to intervene further with our activities in the actions of Member States.
The case is rather different for some countries of Central and Eastern Europe and some new Independent States, whose response to the problem has been less prompt.
Some of them, in fact, did not start to concern themselves with this problem until the end of 1998.
These countries have been supported in their work by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which reviewed their analyses of the extent of the problem in the cases of a considerable number of power plants. Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel referred to the operations carried out to date, and my answer to her is this: the operations of the Agency and of countries using nuclear power plants did not reveal any "bug" problems in the essential safety systems.
The Commission provided additional assistance to a number of nuclear power plant operators.
We financed European Union expert missions to 3 power plants in Russia and to 3 power plants in Ukraine.
In addition, we offered our assistance to the nuclear regulation authorities as of the beginning of this year, and we are now supporting projects of this type in Bulgaria, Slovakia and Russia.
Although none of the elements in the crucial safety systems are affected, a number of other systems, particularly the operator display systems, may be affected and failure of these systems may indirectly threaten nuclear safety by increasing the burden on the operators, as has been mentioned.
According to the information available to us, we think that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe have generally made good progress in correcting these systems.
In comparison, the new Independent States of the former Soviet Union are making undeniably slower progress in their corrective operations, but they are all claiming that the work will have been completed by the end of the year.
We are supporting these rehabilitation projects by contributing to the activities of two international scientific and technical centres, in Moscow and Kiev, and we are prepared, if necessary, to provide additional assistance to these programmes in consideration of the fact that, as you have said throughout this debate, we are getting extremely close to the transition to the year 2000 and the main thing has been to begin to address the problem in good time.
This is my answer, and this is our contribution to solving this important problem.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. today.
East Timor
The next item is the joint debate on five motions for resolution on East Timor:
(B5-0271/1999) by Mr Maaten, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the situation in East Timor;
(B5-0273/1999) Ms Figueiredo, Mr Miranda, and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in East Timor;
(B5-0280/1999) Mr Seguro, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in East Timor;
(B5-0289/1999) Mr Queirò, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the situation in East Timor;
(B5-0299/1999) Ms Hautala, Ms McKenna, and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on the situation in East Timor.
Mr President, it has, in fact, been possible once again to reach an agreement between all the political groups and to present a single motion for a resolution on Timor.
This motion for a resolution is a clear signal to the international community that, in spite of the fact that news about Timor has disappeared from the major European newspapers and that it is no longer the leading item on the most important European television news broadcasts, the international community and the European Union must continue to be attentive to this problem.
Firstly, because abuses of the human dignity and of the human rights of the Timorese who are refugees in other parts of Timor, particularly in West Timor, and who want to return to East Timor are still taking place. The Indonesian authorities must, as a matter of urgency, make humanitarian action possible, particularly on the part of non-governmental organisations.
Secondly, there must be greater vigilance by the peacekeeping forces at the border so that those Timorese who do have the right to return to West Timor can do so safely.
On the other hand, those responsible for the massacres and for the attacks on human life must be punished, not just to ensure that justice is done in Timor, but, indeed, to set an example for other parts of the world where, sadly, attacks on dignity and, above all, on life, which we feel is an inalienable right, still exist and continue to take place.
Finally, Mr President, our intention is for the Commission and the Council to match the condemnations and political speeches with an appropriate expression of financial and technical support for the process of independence and the reconstruction of East Timor.
This is why the Socialist Group supports this resolution and this was what I wanted to say.
I would like to support very much what the last speaker has just said.
With regard to the situation in East Timor we really need to put as much pressure as possible on the Indonesian authorities, because they seem to be turning a blind eye to a lot of what is happening there.
The Indonesians must try and halt the militia and their activities in the area.
There is also the UNHCR fear that the situation is actually going to worsen.
It is not just in East Timor, but also in West Timor where there are still a huge number of refugees - an estimated 250 000 refugees.
As regards the international agencies, we have to ensure that the UNHCR's repatriation programme is allowed to continue without any kind of disruption, because there have been a number of incidents in recent times which point to a deliberate attempt to try and disrupt the UNHCR's repatriation programme.
It is essential that this programme is allowed to continue.
Indonesia itself must facilitate the work of relief agencies and the international forces so as to ensure that peace and stability return to the area.
We in the European Union, along with the United Nations, all encouraged the East Timorese to exercise their right to vote in the referendum.
What happened after that was completely and totally unacceptable, though predictable.
In fact it was predicted long before it happened, and action should have been taken much earlier to prevent the atrocities and the murder of innocent people.
Unfortunately, a huge number of people lost their lives because of the irresponsible attitude of the international community.
Since then, some countries have woken up to the fact that they can no longer stand by idly and watch Indonesia with the support of the militia organisations in that area murdering and chasing the East Timorese out of their country.
It is about time that they had the right to independence - it is what they voted for.
Member States of the European Union have to support them - not just with words but also financial assistance.
Mr President, the developing situation in East Timor must continue to enjoy the complete attention of the European Union' s institutions.
In spite of the positive measures that were taken following Parliament' s resolution on September 16 last, specifically the entry of the international peace and security force under the auspices of the UN and INTERFET, the humanitarian safety situation remains serious both in East Timor itself, which it is essential to provide with resources to support reconstruction, and for approximately 250 thousand people forcibly displaced to Indonesia and, particularly, to West Timor.
Therefore, it is crucial that the European Union, the Member States and the whole international community maintain firm pressure on the Indonesian authorities so that they disarm and control the so-called "militias" with the utmost urgency and they create the necessary conditions of safety for the refugees to return to East Timor, whose territorial integrity should be respected in its entirety.
It is equally vital for words to be replaced with action and humanitarian and financial aid to East Timor to actually be provided.
The delay in the arrival of the aid promised by the European Union, despite the promises made by the Council and the Commission, is unacceptable.
And as approval of the budgetary line for the next few years has been positive, it is vital that the necessary sums be provided for economic and financial support for the reconstruction of East Timor and for its transition to independence.
Finally, it is important to reiterate the fact that the decisions on the East Timor independence process are a matter for its people. This means respecting its sovereignty, so decisions on its present and its future must be taken in close collaboration with the National Council for Timorese Resistance, as it is not for international organisations to replace the people of East Timor but to give them all the necessary support.
Therefore this is an appeal for all Member States, the institutions of the European Union and the whole international community to keep support for the people of East Timor on the agenda and to take the first steps towards the international recognition of the State of East Timor Lorosae and the respective establishment of diplomatic relations.
Mr President, this week sees the start of the United Nations transfer of authority in East Timor to UNTAET.
They do not have an easy task.
The situation of delay, made worse by the vindictive destruction perpetrated by the Indonesian armed forces, the small size of the territory together with the fact that there is another half to the island, the coexistence with neighbours and powerful interests and the lack of an administration are all factors that contribute to the complexity of the task and show the need for the involvement of the Timorese and the importance of international solidarity.
The next two years must be won.
We must build basic infrastructures, establish bases for production, install an administration where none currently exists and do so taking into account the will and the involvement of the Timorese people.
They know what they want and have the right to participate from the outset in their country' s construction.
With regard to international solidarity, it is clear that the joint assessment mission, coordinated by the World Bank and in which elements of the Commission participated, has finished its work in the area.
An estimate of the costs of reconstruction has been made - EUR 250 million over three years - and a conference of donors will be held on 17 December.
The data that has been made available is very useful for Parliament too.
I must point out that after the referendum on August 30 we were already expressing our desire for the European Union to become actively involved in the tasks of reconstruction.
In line with this desire, when, at first reading, we took a stand on Budget 2000, we established a specific point of a multiannual nature with EUR 30 million allocated to the reconstruction of East Timor, an amount that should be increased in view of the information provided by the joint assessment mission.
In conclusion, I would like to highlight the tragic situation of the 250 thousand refugees outside East Timor: the whereabouts of several dozen thousands of people is not known and many of those we do know about are women and children. The refugee camps are dominated by those militias who, having terrorised East Timor, are continuing to do the same in Indonesian territory.
In the meantime, Indonesia is keeping its land borders closed.
The situation is intolerable and is affecting a third of East Timor' s population, which has the right to a free and informed choice as to whether they stay in Indonesia or return to East Timor.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, the Union for a Europe of Nations, I would like to state that I am one of the authors of this report and to say that this is our best opportunity to keep the issue of East Timor on the international agenda.
There is no doubt at all that there are still many problems, both in the area of humanitarian aid and in that of support for reconstruction, and also because we are still seeing serious violations of human rights, particularly in West Timor, with the activity of the militias which have prevented the refugees from East Timor regrouping and returning to their homes and to their land.
These are the reasons that lead me to agree wholeheartedly with this resolution, and also even to highlight again the need for there to be a specific investigation into who is responsible for the massacres that have taken place and for the appropriate judicial authorities to punish those responsible.
I would also like to highlight the proposal that has been made to send a new delegation from the European Parliament to East Timor precisely to verify in loco how this process of reconstruction is taking place and being handled, and in order to have all the necessary facts to enable us to continue maintaining East Timor as an issue that deserves the unanimous attention of all European Members of Parliament.
Mr President, the situation in East Timor may have taken a turn for the better thanks to the change of power in Indonesia and thanks to the arrival of the peacekeeping force, but for the ordinary citizen in East Timor and also for the refugees still in West Timor, the situation is still very alarming indeed.
This may not apply to the political situation - indeed, East Timor' s independence is now being respected - but it very much applies to the humanitarian and judicial situation, for which a solution has not been found in any shape or form.
Although the UNHCR are making every effort to bring the people back, there is a great deal of opposition.
UNAMET are trying their utmost to protect the people but the militia groups are still active.
What is really required is a swift international inquiry into the past events, an international tribunal to administer justice and, in particular, to punish the killers.
What is also required, is aid for the reconstruction.
This is needed quickly as the rainy season is on its way.
Exactly how much money has the Commission earmarked for this situation?
Mr President, as we are on the subject of Indonesia and dramatic events there, could I also receive feedback on what was laid down by resolution in early October, namely that the situation on the Moluccas is also becoming untenable.
This area too is having to deal with 70,000 refugees, 500 killed and a judicial system invariably staffed by militia groups.
We have asked for help and we have not really had any reaction to this.
Mr President, the Indonesian government appears to be sensitive to international criticism.
I therefore welcome the fact that both the Commission and this Parliament are taking action in respect of Indonesia.
It would be a good idea for the Commission to pay a visit there to have a look and talk to everyone.
I also agree with what has just been said, namely that a delegation of the European Parliament should also go and visit East Timor once again, and maybe the Moluccas too, to gain an insight into the events in these areas.
At any rate, this item should not be taken off the agenda for a long while, because the people over there are still going through a very tough time.
The redevelopment of East Timor, in terms of its extent and its political specificity, is an important task for us and for the entire international community.
Within the framework of the United Nations, we must all contribute towards finding an overall solution to this problem, including issues relating to human rights and the establishment of a new state.
In this context, I am pleased to see that Mr Sergio Vieira de Mello, the new United Nations coordinator, arrived in East Timor last Tuesday.
I feel we can wish him nothing but success in this difficult assignment on behalf of the Commission, for my part, and on behalf of the Parliament and the European Union.
You know that the Commission is fully committed to shouldering its responsibilities as regards humanitarian and redevelopment operations.
In response to Mrs Maij-Weggen' s question on humanitarian aid, ECHO has to date committed EUR 5 million and there is a further decision concerning EUR 10 million "in the pipeline" , as it were, in order to complete the work we are currently undertaking on the spot.
We have responded to international appeals and have currently made commitments up to the equivalent of approximately EUR 8.5 million in food aid.
This is not a negligible amount, and we are attempting to measure out this aid to suit the local capacity to absorb it.
The priority that we give to aid for East Timor will be clearly expressed, and I believe that this complies with your suggestion, Mrs Maij-Weggen, by the visit which Commissioner Nielson is going to be making at the end of the month to both East and West Timor.
The Commission will be represented on the spot, at the end of the month, by the Commissioner responsible.
According to our information, the United Nations is managing the large-scale operations in East Timor efficiently.
The repatriation of displaced persons is in progress. As of the day before yesterday, approximately 65,000 of all the persons displaced had returned, and the Indonesian Government gave us assurances that the process of voluntary repatriation would be completed within 100 days.
Subsequently, it shall, of course, be of the utmost important for the East Timorese themselves to participate in all aspects of the process of redevelopment and development.
As you have pointed out, in addition to establishing the foundations of the economy, the emergence of a political power that is up to the task and the development of the necessary institutions will be key elements.
After independence, the government will have to determine its foreign policy stance, particularly as regards membership, if appropriate, of the Lomé Convention.
This is the information I wished to give you in response to your questions.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. today.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy has not responded yet to what happened to the resolution we submitted in early October regarding the area north of Timor.
There were a few questions regarding this area too.
I would like to know when we will receive a reaction because people are in fact waiting for this.
The situation there is not as serious as it is in Timor but it is getting increasingly worse.
Mrs Maij-Weggen, you have been a Member of this House for a long time.
You know the Rules.
We have a very strict period of time for urgencies.
It is not a Question Time, it is a debate.
The Commissioner can choose to reply to those parts of the debate he wishes to reply to.
I am sure that in private he would be happy to give you an answer to your question.
Human Rights
Mr President, I would like to tell you briefly that I belong to a generation which was fortunate not to live through the massacre of Algerians in Paris in 1961, not to experience, on 9 November 1938, Kristallnacht or the start of Jewish persecution in various European countries and fortunate, above, all to see the end of apartheid in South Africa.
If, at every stage along the way, there are people who rose up and said, "Never again" , it is quite simply because they are convinced that there is nothing worse than physical harm inflicted on individuals.
This founding principle of Europe is today being challenged, indeed, by the application of the death penalty in a considerable number of places throughout the world.
China, the self-styled democratic Republic of the Congo, the United States and Iran have the sad record of coming at the top of the list of the countries which apply the death sentence.
According to Amnesty International, there are 3,500 prisoners waiting for execution in the United States, where 68 prisoners were executed last year.
In these countries, the right of life or death over prisoners is all the more intolerable in the light of the ridiculously limited budgets allocated to crime prevention policies and social matters.
I prefer to think that, as Victor Hugo said, to close one prison, it is enough to open one more school.
There is absolutely no doubt that the seventeen years that Mumia Abu-Jamal has just spent rotting on death row following a travesty of justice are linked to the fact that he is black, to his fight against institutional racism, to the freedom of thought which this journalist practised by having the courage to denounce the corruption prevailing in the ranks of the Philadelphia police.
In the same way, Iran, which executed 66 people last year, would have us believe that the dozens of students arrested and the 13 Jews, were spies.
The mobilisation of international opinion, as we have seen, prevented the execution of Mumia Abu-Jamal, scheduled for 2 December.
But, for the time being, there has only been a stay of execution.
We must now seek to have the order of execution revoked definitively.
We must widen and intensify our pressure on these countries and hit them where it hurts.
It is important that European businesses should refuse to invest in the states of the United States or anywhere else in the world where the death penalty continues to be applied.
The Member States of the European Union must refuse to extradite any person to a country where it is known that their death sentence is automatically programmed as soon as they set foot there.
Demanding the immediate and unconditional abolition of capital punishment throughout the entire world today does not just mean promoting human dignity but also validating the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Mr President, I belong to a generation which thinks that conventions against torture and discrimination should not be signed just for the fun of it.
Mr President, the events that led up to the withdrawal of the motion on the moratorium are described and evaluated, in the resolution we are preparing to vote on, in a fairly neutral and rather polite way.
I am afraid that the reasons behind the withdrawal of this resolution are, at the very least, suspect, and have more to do with a kind of boycott than the defence of principles.
I truly hope that Parliament will be attentive to this subject, because it is clear that the attitude of some of the Member States has been ambiguous, to say the least, and it is therefore logical that Parliament - which from this point of view has always been quite consistent - must continue to be vigilant.
As the Group of the Greens, we have taken note of these events, as well as the somewhat half-hearted wording of this resolution, which, however, we consider it important to adopt, at least in order to indicate that there is a problem that we must continue to be active on.
Nevertheless, I would stress once again that, from this point of view, the European Union' s ambiguity is apparent to everyone, and I therefore think that we should express ourselves in a much clearer way than we have in the resolution.
Mr President, we are always complaining and regretting - rightly in my opinion - that the European Union does not speak with one voice on the international stage.
Despite what our colleague has just said, I think that on this occasion there is more than sufficient reason to congratulate ourselves on the fact that the European Union has unanimously presented a resolution to the United Nations requesting a moratorium on the death penalty.
It is sad that this initiative has not come to fruition and we hope that it will do so during this legislature.
What I would like to say, Mr President, is that we have done this because we are convinced that everybody has the unalienable right to the respect for life and this right cannot go unrecognised or be violated.
We have all seen the horrendous pictures of the last death sentence passed by the Florida Court and it will therefore not surprise any of you that the first person to appear in the text of the joint resolution should be the Spanish - and hence European Union - citizen, Joaquín José Martínez, whose sentence we ask to be reviewed and whose death sentence we ask to be suspended.
In this case there has been a series of coincidences which have inspired an enthusiastic solidarity movement in our country in which the Government, all the political parties and the rest of society have taken part.
I would like to say that there have been a whole series of irregularities in the trial and it appears that the defence lawyer has not fulfilled his commitments.
However, Mr President, what is serious - and his case is serious enough as it is - are not the conditions of this trial, nor the fact that the United States holds the tragic and regrettable record for executing people who are later proved to be innocent.
What is most tragic and regrettable is the fact that the death penalty exists at all.
I therefore believe, Mr President, that as a European Parliament we have to show, in this and all other similar cases, a firm and resolute commitment to the right to life, as we have done in this joint resolution.
Mr President, the death penalty is in fact a repugnant relic of a vanished age.
It is founded upon an Old Testament "eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth" mindset which is not worthy of humanity now that we are approaching a new millennium.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has played a forceful role in the fight against the death penalty.
In one after another of the applicant States, it is either in the process of being, or already has been, abolished, which is a very positive development.
In spite of that, the death penalty is still applied in all too many States.
Only last year, 1,625 prisoners in 37 different countries were executed, and there are thousands on death row.
In the United States alone, several thousand people are waiting to be executed.
Some of the prisoners condemned to death throughout the world have committed odious crimes, but that does not justify their being executed.
All too often, the death penalty is used for political purposes, and there can be legal confusion and innocent people can be executed.
That alone is an argument against this barbaric form of punishment.
Nor does the death penalty have any proven deterrent effect.
The resolution we are debating is really quite remarkable.
It names three citizens who, over the next few days, are to be executed in the United States.
Obviously, we are urging the American government not to carry out these death sentences.
But what the resolution really ought to be concerned with - a subject which my colleagues too have taken up - is the memorandum concerning the death penalty throughout the world. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wholeheartedly supports this memorandum, which the UN has initiated.
We would encourage the Commission and the Council to pursue this issue vigorously and to unite the European Union in unanimously condemning the death penalty in every forum so as to give rise to a worldwide moratorium on its use.
The abolition of the death penalty would be a fantastic step forward in the fight for human rights and also a big step forward for the recognition of human dignity.
Mr President, every year hundreds of human beings are executed in the world - often in the so-called civilised world - at the hands of other human beings.
In 1998 it was noted that there were at least 1,625 executions in 37 countries and almost 4,000 death sentences in another 78 countries.
These figures refer exclusively to the information which Amnesty International has been able to collect.
The true figure is, without doubt, much higher.
Every year an unknown number of people are declared innocent after being executed.
According to a report released recently, since 1973 and in the United States alone, 75 prisoners condemned to death were released when it was discovered that they had been wrongly convicted.
We will never know how many innocent people there were amongst the approximately 7000 prisoners executed in the United States of America during this century.
According to Amnesty International, for every six prisoners executed since the restoration of the death penalty in the United States, one innocent person was condemned to death and later pardoned.
Therefore, it seems to me that the Council' s proposal to the United Nations, however important and positive the initiative may be, is very timid because calls on those States which retain the death penalty - and I quote - "to progressively restrict the number of crimes for which it is imposed" .
Does that seem to us to be sufficient?
Do we want to be a diplomatic Assembly or a political Parliament?
That is why we ask the Council, in section 9 of this resolution, in the negotiations with third countries, to examine the possibility of incorporating the abolition of the death penalty into the clause on human rights.
Perhaps the Council is not in a position to do any more, but what about us?
Should we not be more demanding?
Should we not be more ambitious?
The answer is yes.
This is why we are sending this message to the Council and all the nations of the world.
The case of the Spanish citizen, José Joaquín Martínez, is a clear example of justice with no guarantees.
That is why he is calling for real justice, and that is why we support him today.
He wants a new form of justice so that he can demonstrate his innocence, and he has the right to it.
But I declare, we all declare together, that no death sentence is a just sentence.
None is.
I will also end with a biblical quote which is more positive than the one quoted by my colleague.
It is a quote from Genesis.
Cain killed Abel and nobody disputed his guilt in this horrendous crime.
He spilled the blood of his brother and the Lord cursed him and expelled him from his house and condemned him to live as a fugitive and a vagabond: "And Cain said to the Lord: 'every one that findeth me shall slay me' .
And the Lord said unto him: 'Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold' .
And the Lord set a mark upon Cain lest any finding him should kill him" .
May nobody touch Cain, that was the message.
May nobody touch Cain.
That should be our ambition: that nobody can execute any human being ever, in any part of the world, for any reason.
Nobody.
Not even the United States of America.
Mr President, we probably do not always feel comfortable in this Parliament, because what is approved is not what we wanted to be approved.
However, once again, this Parliament is going to speak to the rest of the world against the death penalty.
I therefore feel proud to be here this afternoon and to be able to vote, unanimously, for a condemnation of the death penalty.
The death penalty is barbarous.
As other Members have said, it is a terrifying fact that many innocent people have been executed.
And I do not understand how anybody can live with that on their conscience.
In reality today' s resolution talks about three specific cases: firstly, the case of José Joaquín Martínez, a Spaniard, in whose trial enormous irregularities have occurred.
I have here a copy of a letter which one of the witnesses sent.
He is in prison, it is true, but he sent a letter to the court saying that he had heard somebody claiming responsibility for the murder which José Joaquín Martínez is convicted of.
With this simple source of doubt, it is impossible to condemn a defendant to death.
Therefore we ask in the resolution for a new trial and that under no circumstances the death sentence be passed.
The second case is that of Abu Jamal.
There are many reasons to believe that the trial and death sentence on Abu Jamal were motivated by political factors, above all, because he was a leader.
For the moment he has been spared.
His execution was set for 2 December.
We also demand that this death sentence not be carried out.
And we also take up the case of a person who is mentally ill, who was about to be executed and who has been spared.
It seems to us an enormous and terrifying cruelty that anybody should consider executing ill people of this type and that people should be kept in prison for 21 years, as is the case with a Canadian who was due to be executed and, half an hour before his execution, had his appeal accepted in court.
This is tremendously cruel and the world cannot accept it.
This Parliament must champion the demand for a universal moratorium, if this is not approved now.
And to this end we must display our moral authority.
Mr President, I am in complete agreement with Mrs Díez González on the need to seek to convince the Council to introduce a clause on capital punishment and the abolition of capital punishment into agreements with third countries.
But, no doubt, it would also be necessary to seek to convince the members of the Socialist Group that they should be firm on this point.
This has not been the case to date, and I therefore wish Mrs Díez González good luck.
Having said that, I think that the heart of the matter was raised by Mrs Frassoni and Mr Salafranca.
What we are talking about here is not the issue of capital punishment.
This House has shown on many occasions that it was convinced of the need to establish a universal moratorium.
What we are talking about here is foreign policy and, more exactly, once again, the matter of the European Union' s lack of foreign policy.
I would go further than Mrs Frassoni.
There is no ambiguity.
On Monday, the Council decided to withdraw the motion it had proposed on the pretext that it reiterated a fundamental article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On Tuesday, it voted in the texts with the same reference to the fundamental articles of this declaration.
The problem clearly, therefore, lies in the lack of political will, and we can imagine the reasons for this: pressure from some major countries, such as the People' s Republic of China, the United States and Japan, who succeeded in ensuring that this policy, upon which the Union had already decided, was literally betrayed at the last moment.
The central problem before us, then, as a Parliament, is the problem of a necessary joint European policy on security and foreign affairs.
One of the first things to ask for is that this dossier is handed over to Mr Solana.
It is no longer possible for this dossier to be placed in the hands of presidencies which, as we know, change over every six months; we need a permanent spokesman who can, on his own authority, organise the work of the various Member State delegations in New York so that, next year, we have a position which is consistent from beginning to end, thus avoiding this truly tragic situation, one that has made things difficult for a number of third countries friendly to the European Union, starting with Mexico, which had made a very firm commitment to defending our perfectly acceptable compromise position.
We must therefore amend today' s motion for a resolution in order to firmly condemn the Council and ask it, as firmly, to entrust this dossier to Mr Solana, and to him alone.
Mr President, Parliament has today, for the umpteenth time, expressed its repugnance of the anachronistic, anti-democratic methods of punishment of dubious efficacy which continue to be used throughout the world, including by countries such as the United States of America, which have recently starting championing human rights.
However, even underage children are executed in the USA and, according to statistics, the criminal justice system operates selectively at the expense of the weakest economic and social groups, especially if they are dark-skinned.
We are horrified by the frequency with which the innocence of citizens condemned to death is subsequently proven.
And while all this is going on, the 54th General Assembly of the UN has rejected the motion by the Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union for no more death penalties to be carried out.
It goes without saying, Mr President, that the death penalty has no place in a democratic society.
No-one has the power of life or death over anyone for any reason whatsoever.
On the contrary, the death penalty is the preferred weapon of totalitarian regimes because it is a symbol of the power of the state and of the humility of the individual in the face of the power of the state and, as we know, it is often used to annihilate opponents.
This is why, on the basis of our European values and in the name of respect for human rights, we call on the governments of all the countries in which death sentences are pending to suspend them immediately and to repeal the death penalty.
We also call on the USA to allow a retrial of the journalist Abu Jamal in Pennsylvania, of Martínez in Florida and of Robinson so that they may have a chance to defend themselves properly.
Finally, the European Union and the Council need to impose the repeal of the death penalty in the form of a special clause in economic and political agreements with third countries, as called for by other Members.
In addition, an immediate worldwide campaign is needed and a worldwide moratorium on capital punishment pending the final repeal of the death penalty throughout the whole world.
I shall vote in favour of the resolution asking for a moratorium on capital punishment, since it is the best on offer, but I consider that not having the courage to take up a stance in favour of the immediate and unconditional abolition of capital punishment is an abdication of responsibility in the face of barbarism.
Among the many cases of death sentences where the sentence is so unfair that carrying out the sentence would be a heinous act, I wish to draw attention to the case of the Iranian students condemned to death for taking part in the demonstrations last July.
These sentences come in addition to the equally ignominious sentences of 13 Iranian Jews, not to mention here the thousands of victims of repression in the past.
All those under threat of capital punishment for political reasons should be released immediately, as should the great numbers of students sentenced to imprisonment.
And if these sentences show the worth of the regime of oppression and terror which is that of Iran, they are just as indicative of the essence and worth of trusts such as Shell, for example, which has just signed a USD 800 million contract with the Iranian Government.
It also shows the worth of the pronouncements on human rights by Europe' s Heads of State and Government who received the President of Iran with great pomp and ceremony, so that other trusts could sign other just as fat contracts.
Finally, while I am delighted to see that Mumia Abu-Jamal, the victim of the schemes of a corrupt and racist police force, was not executed, I consider that the fight is not yet over, and it is his release that we have to achieve.
Respect for Serbs and other minority groups in Kosovo
Mr President, what has happened in recent years in Kosovo is a profound tragedy.
On many occasions, we have condemned from this Chamber the outrages perpetrated upon the Kosovan Albanian people.
Their suffering is inconceivable, and none of us can ever understand the scale of what they have experienced.
We in the European Union are also guilty of not having succeeded in time in preventing Milosevic' s insane excursions so close to our own territory.
The EU also has an important role to play in the reconstruction process.
All democratic forces must be supported in order to facilitate the reconstruction and create a functioning and democratic civil society.
The collective rape which has been committed against the Kosovan Albanian people cannot however justify the actions which have been reported on against civilians belonging to, among other groups, the Serbian minority, but also other minorities.
If any kind of normality is to be achieved, all affected parties must feel secure in returning or in staying where they are.
This applies to both the majority and the minority.
The persecutions, and in certain cases murders, of Serbs which have occurred are therefore entirely to be condemned and must cease. They do not carry the peace process forward.
The outrages committed against KFOR personnel are also unacceptable and, on behalf of my Group (the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party), I should like strongly to condemn these.
I should also like to appeal to all parties to cease committing such outrages and to lay down their weapons and together embark upon the long and difficult road to peace. I plead for all parties and organisations to work together for a better and brighter future in Kosovo, a future where all can hopefully live together.
Mr President, it is an insult to our conscience and political ethics that, after the military intervention by NATO and the European Union against Yugoslavia, under a humanitarian flag, as a result of the unforgivable ethnic cleansing by Yugoslavia against the Albanians, we are now remaining calm and accepting the violence against the Serbs, gypsies and other minorities, this time on the part of the Albanians, which, furthermore, is of an even higher proportion.
Therefore, we think that, if the European Union does not condemn and put an end to this criminal behaviour, the conclusions would be clear: firstly, the European Union would become an accomplice in the killings of Serbs and gypsies organised by the criminal and mafia groups of the KLA; and secondly, it would demonstrate that the West has two different yardsticks; and thirdly, the impression would be given that the objective of the intervention was to destroy the Serbian people.
Mr President, at the beginning of this year, anyone who was no longer able to stand by and watch the murders, expulsions, looting and pillaging by the Serbian army and militia in Kosovo and for that reason spoke out in favour of so-called humanitarian intervention, must now wonder whether the war - that was unfortunately not waged against those who committed the crimes, but against the Yugoslavian population, - the war that we conducted for over two and a half months and that cost several billion euros, really brought about the result that we expected.
Have the murders, expulsions, looting and pillaging in Kosovo stopped?
Unfortunately not.
Unfortunately the crimes are continuing, with two differences.
First: the victims of the crimes are no longer the Kosovo Albanians, but Serbs, Roma and even Bosnians.
Secondly, it is no longer the Yugoslavian army in Kosovo, but our armies, which on the one hand are completing a fantastic undertaking in reconstruction, in protecting people, bringing law and order, in every respect and on the other hand are despairing because they are not able to really protect the people that they should protect and that they would have wanted to protect.
Who is to blame?
Unfortunately those for whom the international community waged a war, the first war on humanitarian grounds.
The former KLA - I say "former" because it supposedly no longer exists, because it was supposedly disarmed - believes that it has won a war and that it therefore has the right to commit exactly the same crimes as those who led to this war.
And that is the disgrace!
The international community has until now just looked on at what is happening.
We would assure the UN representative, Mr Kouchner, and his former colleagues, of our full support, if he would finally begin to set up an administration in Kosovo and not leave that to the bogus and illegitimate government of the KLA, even if the local authorities and the city and local councils were not formed by the KLA, but actually - if not other Kosovans - other UN officials could complete this work and the various different tasks that need to be performed in Kosovo.
Mr President, Mr Sakellariou, I can immediately endorse what you have said.
I was there in October.
I can confirm that the military power could not resolve the problems on the spot.
On the contrary, the old principle is being borne out: violence breeds violence.
The international community in fact has no solution to the Kosovo conflict that exists just as it did before.
The conflict is there as it was previously.
The international community does say that Kosovo is part of the rest of Yugoslavia and we are creating a multi-ethnic society.
But the reality in Kosovo is completely different.
Everyone who is there and everyone who works there knows that, and that includes the EU officials.
The former KLA, Mr Sakellariou, I can stress, feels that it is the victor and, through the mainly economic international aid, feels that this victory is confirmed.
All the parties theoretically declare that the Serbs, Roma and Albanians can live together but in practice the situation in Pristina is different.
You can no longer see the Cyrillic alphabet.
It has all been destroyed, because the Slav language may no longer be spoken.
For all Serbs who live in Pristina this means that they can really no longer take part in public life.
This is Pristina, a city full of international organisations!
In Mítrovica the situation is much worse.
The city is completely divided and is becoming more markedly so day by day.
Why is that?
The reason is simply that we only concentrate on economic aid and forget the crucial things, that is to say, the practise of tolerance, the practise of democracy and aid in the social field.
There is no money available for these things on the spot.
Mr Kouchner knows that reconstruction in Kosovo will fail on the very matter of the protection of the minorities.
He is not receiving any help from the EU in that regard.
Mr President, the situation in Kosovo is marked by great uncertainty and violence and even by murder from time to time and in the end, as we have heard, that discredits us all.
In many cases in which I have tried to help since 1989, I have felt myself to be personally compromised.
Why did we intervene as an international community?
We decided to help the Albanians because their basic and human rights were being infringed.
For that reason we went in and I still believe that it was the right thing to do.
Over eight years of an apartheid regime in Kosovo the Albanians did not do anything to anyone, neither to the Serbs nor to the Roma, nor to the Croats, nor to the Bosnians.
But they have suffered dreadfully and we must not forget that.
The mass graves, more of which are found every day, are proof of this.
I therefore believe that it will be very difficult for them to live together.
Wounds heal extremely slowly.
We in Central and Northern Europe know that too.
I therefore believe that we must demand something, that they can contribute and that is, coexistence on the ground.
And we must help them.
These criminal acts must also be denounced by the Albanian leaders.
We must help with the means at our disposal to find the perpetrators and convict them.
We want to prevent injustice and now some of those we have helped are turning out to be liars and are themselves driving out minorities.
The Roma, Serbs, Croats and Bosnians, anyone in fact who might not speak this language, belongs to this group.
I should not like the oppressed people to become oppressors themselves.
We must therefore ensure that in the communities where there is persecution, even the reconstruction be suspended, so that every single citizen in this country takes responsibility himself and ensures that such criminal acts do not occur again.
KFOR cannot be everywhere, it cannot stand behind everyone and so every decent Albanian - and there are more of them than we think - really must feel that they themselves are taking responsibility.
The problem is also that the Albanian leaders or those people who think they are, are not really in a position jointly to build the future for this land, for their homeland, and so we must also appeal to them.
I believe that we need an interim government - and more quickly than Mr Kouchner is able to establish one.
Secondly, at local level, we need really responsible people and if these people cannot be Albanians or Serbs where they are in the majority, then it must be someone from the international community so that we have a contact to talk to.
Everywhere, where things are going well in the communities, we must react positively and say that we are helping you more than we help those who do nothing.
Now - this is of course a difficult task which must be carried out by UNMIG - the problem is that this is something that is easier to solve on paper than in reality.
But I am not of the opinion that we can do all of that merely by installing democracy.
We must do that, but the first need is to create jobs, we must create infrastructure, so that the young people who are now going around with Kalashnikovs, can finally hold tools in their hands and do something for their country.
Then we shall be on the right path and Mr Kouchner must also be a little more effective than he is at the moment, whoever may be hampering him in carrying out his task.
Mr President, today' s debate has until now unfortunately been really one-sided as we have forgotten to be self-critical.
We have for years ignored the oppression that went on for 10 years in Kosovo.
Doris Pack and others did not do so, but a large majority did.
We are ourselves to blame, at least those who held this attitude, for the fact that Rugova was frozen out, because he was left alone for 10 years with his non-violence.
It is quite clear that in a desperate situation, in which hundreds of thousands of people were driven out by systematic state violence - and that is the big difference with the current isolated acts of revenge that are of course despicable - Rugova lost control of the forces.
We should for a start see clearly that condemning others can be a good thing, but it would also be a good thing to exercise some self-criticism: We have above all failed in this way.
Of course we must send out a strong signal against any expulsions.
I myself come from a family who - collectively innocent - on the basis of state decrees 50 years ago, were expelled.
Any expulsion is an expulsion too many and this 20th century is likely to go down in history as the century of genocide and expulsions.
We therefore have a duty to stop every expulsion, including those in Kosovo, and we have a duty to speak up so that the ban on expulsions and the right to a homeland become the foundations of international law, so that such dreadful events are not repeated.
Mr President, the fact is, and I can only endorse what my colleagues have just said, that we are running a considerable risk of missing the goal and failing to create a multi-ethnic Kosovo, which was our goal, and of creating a ethnically pure Kosovo, i.e. a purely Albanian Kosovo just before we reach that goal.
Mr Posselt, you are right in your criticism.
In this very House, Mrs Pack and many others including myself have for years pointed out what could happen in Kosovo if we continue to look on and thereby contribute to Rugova being frozen out.
When we were in Kosovo a short while ago - the President of this House and Mrs Pack -, we saw that where "ethnic cleansing" occurred, the situation is going fairly well.
But where the ethnic groups meet, the conflicts are very acute and they have become more acute.
It is unacceptable that if Serbs or Albanians need to go to hospital, they actually run a risk of being more injured once they get there than they would have been before they got to hospital.
The language of the international community must be clear here.
It is unacceptable that every Albanian who has a liberal, open attitude, like the former speaker of the delegation at Rambouillet, is threatened because he speaks out in favour of the Serbs, the Roma, the Sinti and other ethnic groups being accepted in his country.
As was already mentioned, it also has to do with the fact that we unfortunately have Albanian politicians in Kosovo who do not conduct policy that is geared to the future structure, but are working in a one-sided way according to which side they are on.
It was the speaker of the delegation in Rambouillet who made a great impression on us when he said: "Ask an Albanian politician any minor date, any minor event in history and he will tell you a lot about it.
If you ask him how the social security system of the future will be extended, you will not find anyone who can give you an answer" .
So it is all the more important - and I should like to stress this - that UNMIK and Bernard Kouchner make rapid progress in setting up a government.
The government must of course have contact with the population.
It must work together with the population.
But it must also examine very carefully who it is and then it must become clear and unambiguous that it is the UN that is also at stake along with its mandate and its authority and of course the European Union as well.
We must help the Albanian population to build a multi-ethnic society.
That is the great task before us.
The battle for freedom in Kosovo has not yet been won.
There is still a lot to do!
It is most gratifying to note that all the Groups in this House are clearly in agreement on this subject.
That is certainly a great help.
Mr President, Hashim Thaçi, the leader of the KLA (the Kosovo Liberation Army), recently postulated: "I am the President of Kosovo.
People who support my government are welcome in Kosovo. Anyone who creates hassle should leave."
This misplaced display of power, deserving of condemnation to say the least, follows in the footsteps of the execrable oppression regime adopted by Slobodan Milosevic.
This political line is just as diametrically opposed to pacification, let alone a social renewal process, within the legendary battlefield of Kosovo Polje and its surrounding areas.
In fact, Thaçi' s words are inviting the remaining members of the Serbian minority to leave if they have not done so already.
Words which have been reinforced in the past couple of months by downright acts of terror, committed by the victims of yesterday, by Albanian Kosovars.
Significantly, Albanian journalist Veton Surroi sharply condemned this reprehensible attitude as being "organised and systematic terror which can only be described as fascist" .
The minority Roma group too suffered badly under a pogrom-like Albanian attitude.
I would like to make a special appeal for the Kosovar Roma, one of the oldest communities there.
Today, it is collectively paying the price for being a so-called accomplice in the Milosevic regime.
After all, Belgrade gave Kosovar Roma the jobs which it no longer gave to the Kosovar Albanians between 1989-1999.
Mr President, thorough, unbiased historical investigation should show to what extent the Albanian allegations of atrocities carried out by Kosovar Roma in respect of their Albanian fellow citizens are true.
One thing is for sure, from both a Christian and general, moral perspective: crimes do not under any circumstance justify new crimes!
Well now, those have definitely taken place since the arrival of the UN and KFOR in Kosovo on 12 June.
What is more, they were already occurring in the Macedonian refugee camps.
The outcome was obvious: an estimated 20,000 Roma fled from Kosovo, most of whom ended up in refugee camps in neighbouring Montenegro and Macedonia.
However, according to my sources, these camps will be closing by the end of the year.
If this information is correct, what does the EU intend to do to help these displaced Kosovar Roma?
In this context, I would also like to raise another pressing question.
In Montenegro, large numbers of Kosovar Roma are falling into the hands of unscrupulous people smuggling refugees into Italy.
What can the European Union, in close cooperation with the Montenegro authorities, do to stop this?
Finally, it was recently stated in a report in the Chechen weekly "Tyden" on "the covert Roma exodus" from Kosovo that Roma do not give much thought to their future.
Why should they?
After all, they do not have one, not a dignified one that is, "wedged between Albanian terror in Kosovo, dislike and discrimination within other countries and dwindling humanitarian aid within the central Balkans" .
All the more reason why the international community should now join forces to protect the Roma who are still in Kosovo.
Alexander Nikitin
Mr President, on 23 November, Alexander Nikitin will appear in court again.
He still has to face trial on an old case of "spying" .
It became clear a long time ago that he has the information in the Bellona report from sources that are accessible to the general public.
However, his expert knowledge made it possible for us to be made aware of an enormous hazard that is heading for us and is slumbering in the Arctic Ocean.
He acted with a great sense of humanity.
The EU has a special responsibility here because until now it has used the material that Alexander Nikitin compiled.
One of the essential components of the Northern dimension that was decided on in Helsinki is the issue of cleaning the Arctic Ocean and averting the danger that could affect us all.
We must therefore intervene more forcefully here so that Alexander Nikitin can finally be released and so that the accusations are dropped, because we all know that these proceedings are purely political and therefore the laws in Russia will also be infringed by these proceedings, because the old nomenclature will win again.
I believe that Alexander Nikitin has acted with enormous consideration for others and with remarkable responsibility in making this material available to us.
It is therefore necessary for the EU Mission in Moscow at least to observe this case, but also to intervene in the political dialogue, so that it is declared a political case and Alexander Nikitin can finally be released.
Alexander Nikitin should be free and honoured!
Mr President, the European Convention on Human Rights that also applies to Russia as a Member State of the Council of Europe, has, as it were, its headquarters here in Strasbourg.
On the other side of the river is the European Court of Human Rights, to which Mr Nikitin has appealed.
That means that what is happening in Russia is not an internal affair of a far-off land but that it is an internal affair of a European institution at whose heart are the fifteen Member States of the EU.
We therefore have an important duty to speak up for Mr Nikitin and his release so that he can finally live in humane and constitutional conditions.
We, as the EU, are also bound under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which not only commits Russia but ourselves too and it contains a human rights clause, to speak out most fervently on behalf of Mr Nikitin for an improvement in his conditions of detention on the spot, for his release and as I said, for fair and constitutional treatment.
It would be a disgrace if we gave way, because - as Mrs Schroedter put it so well - Mr Nikitin also acted in our interests.
We have often dealt with it here in the Parliament.
He acted on behalf of the European environment.
He acted for the rule of law on the whole continent.
We should in fact award Mr Nikitin one of our prizes here in the European Parliament.
I should therefore like to endorse this motion for a resolution most emphatically and the appeal it contains.
Mr President, I rise on behalf of my group but also on behalf of my colleague Lord Bethell, who takes a particular concern and interest in this matter.
The fate of Alexander Nikitin is particularly relevant to a topical and urgent debate.
Next Tuesday he is due to appear in court in Russia.
I believe this is the sixth time that he will appear in court.
He is indicted on a charge of high treason, which is a very strong and extreme charge and for what?
For addressing a matter of public interest, of environmental interest to the whole of Europe.
Under this charge he faces a possible death sentence.
This is an extreme sanction and this House and the European institutions should send a very powerful message to Russia that it should re-think this issue, the charges should be dropped and it should respect our call for his immediate release.
In the context of the earlier debate on ending the death penalty, it is very relevant that we should call upon the Russian authorities to respect our views, the views of Europe, as to whether he should be indicted and what the sanction should be.
So I very much support the calls for Mr Nikitin to be immediately released and found not guilty of the charges.
I shall answer briefly the three points which have been raised: capital punishment, the minorities in Kosovo and the Nikitin case.
Firstly, as regards the matter of capital punishment, I would like to devote a few words not to the substance of the question, which you deal with in your draft resolution and which, plainly, meets with the approval of the Commission as far as the position adopted on capital punishment is concerned.
This does not, I feel, merit extensive comment, as we are in agreement on this point. What I wish to bring up is a specific point which was mentioned in the course of the discussion, i.e. the matter of the draft resolution on capital punishment which the Union proposed to the Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
This is, in fact, a matter of foreign policy.
By means of this resolution, the European Union was proposing to the international community that it undertake to establish a moratorium on capital punishment.
Indeed, as far as we are concerned, the abolition of capital punishment is an intrinsic part of our human rights policy, whereas for many countries this is exclusively a matter of criminal law, or so they claim, at least.
We did indeed withdraw this draft resolution, on mature reflection, and this decision is presented for your evaluation.
We withdrew it because the debates in this Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations were, in our opinion, going badly.
In fact, we felt that some of the many amendments submitted by the countries for whom our position is a problem are, in our view, unacceptable, particularly the amendment to introduce into the resolution a reference to article 2, paragraph 7 of the United Nations Charter, in the terms of which, "Nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorise the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any state."
This amendment was indeed inconvenient, insofar as it shifted the debate into another sphere, that of the national jurisdiction of a state.
As far as we were concerned, the inclusion in the resolution of a reference specific to the principle of sovereignty of states would have entailed a risk of challenging the body of legislation in the system of the United Nations, and, in particular, of the World Conference of 1993, which said that the promotion and protection of human rights was a "legitimate concern" of the international community.
Moreover, accepting an amendment of this kind could have had a very negative impact on the work of the United Nations in the human rights field.
It was not therefore, as I have heard, in order to yield to some sort of pressure that we preferred to close the debate in this way, at least for the time being, but rather in order to maintain a position of principle.
You must not, therefore, see this decision as indicative of a lack of a foreign policy, or that we caved under pressure, but of the Union' s assessment of the risk, considering the proposed amendments, of finding ourselves, for the sake of the legitimate campaign we share, some way behind the positions we have gained earlier.
This is the explanation I wished to give you.
I shall now come to the second subject, Mr President, regarding the rights of the Serbs and other minorities in Kosovo.
I believe that the Commission and, with it, the entire European Union has made it clear, from the start, that we condemn any sort of ethnic violence, regardless of who is inflicting and who is suffering it.
Such violence is just as unacceptable today against the Serbian and Gypsy minorities as it was when it was inflicted upon the Kosovars several months before.
Thanks to programmes of assistance in democratisation and human rights, the Commission continues to provide support for measures intended to re-establish confidence and to promote dialogue between the different communities.
We were already active in this way, without much success, unfortunately, even before the conflict, and I share, from this point of view, the suggestions that some of you made that we must all meticulously take stock of the situation.
From now on, in the new circumstances, we are nonetheless trying pragmatically to continue to act according to these objectives, particular in selecting aid and assistance projects.
We support fully and absolutely the action undertaken by KFOR to maintain law and order in Kosovo and to protect all the citizens.
In addition, we support fully and absolutely the action undertaken by MINUK in order to set up an operational civil administration, capable of taking on the police functions which are currently handled by KFOR, and to create a peaceful multi-ethnic society, capable of taking on both the reconstruction of Kosovo and the restoration of its society.
MINUK approached the Commission with regard to the financing of the Kosovo protection force and the Member States shall take a decision, in the weeks to come, regarding the programme we suggested in response to this request.
We are also offering our support, in the form of twinning, to the actions agreed by MINUK at local administration level.
In this context, we are asking all people of goodwill in Kosovo and outside, to also work towards these objectives in order to help us to ensure that MINUK and KFOR achieve them themselves.
I may remind you, if you need reminding, that we are opposed to Kosovo being partitioned.
It must become a multi-ethnic society, without distinctions or discrimination for ethnic or other reasons.
And if I may switch to English for convenience without breaching the rules of this House, I will answer that the European Commission has been following very closely and with a great degree of concern Alexander Nikitin's trial.
Representatives of EU Member States attended the court session in St Petersburg in October 1998 and were present when the Supreme Court delivered its latest decision in February 1999 to send back the case to the lower court for further investigation.
In line with previous statements, the European Commission has made it clear that any further judicial proceedings regarding the contribution made by Mr Nikitin to the Bellona report should be in full conformity with internationally agreed principles and standards of justice and human rights.
I am aware that Mr Nikitin's lawyers have lodged an application to the European Court of Human Rights and I am certain the Council of Europe's institutions will pursue this application accordingly.
While respecting the judicial procedures of a sovereign country, the European Commission will remain vigilant to ensure that Mr Nikitin is granted an impartial and public trial based on the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Russian Constitution.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30.p.m.
Rwanda/Burundi
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
B5-0267/99 by Mrs Ries and Mr van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group;
B5-0276/99 by Mr Miranda and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group;
B5-0285/99 by Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE (Social Democratic) Group;
B5-0293/99 by Mrs Maes and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group;
B5-0294/99 by Mrs Maes and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group;
B5-0300/99 by Mr Van Hecke and Mr Khanbhai, on behalf of the PPE (Christian Democrats)/DE Group;
B5-0301/99 by Mr Van Hecke and Mr Khanbhai, on behalf of the PPE (Christian Democrats)/DE Group;
on the situation in the Great Lakes region and in particular on Rwanda and the situation in Burundi.
Mr President, Commissioner, the recent release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has scandalised the government and population in Rwanda.
Their anger is perfectly legitimate: the defendant was released on a technicality despite the extremely serious charges against him, charges of genocide.
Going beyond this particular episode which the Rwandans see as traumatic, what is involved here is the culture of impunity.
It must be clearly established that all those who committed crimes as heinous as genocide or crimes against humanity, or who were accomplices to these, will be pursued tirelessly.
In order to do so, international institutions, and that includes ourselves, must provide the international courts with sufficient resources to accomplish its task.
Would the European Union be prepared, Mr Lamy, to play a role in this regard, in order to, in future, prevent this type of blunder which is catastrophic in the opinion of the populations who are waiting for truth and justice?
Finally, being particularly attentive, of course, to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, so that the duty to remember this conflict which already seems far off, some people think too far off, is maintained, it is the role of the European Union, I feel, to stand by the people of Rwanda on this occasion.
A people that has today been truly betrayed by the release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza, who was, need one be reminded, the founder of hate radio, the notorious Radio-Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM).
The reaction of the Kigali authorities is understandable, but I invite them to resume their cooperation with the ICTR which is still, in spite of everything, the best instrument to establish justice and, hence, peace.
It is essential for the international justice system to regain control if it wishes to ensure its own credibility, but we must also give it the resources it needs to fulfil its ambitions.
This is the price of what we owe to the memory of the Rwandans.
Mr President, we visited Nassau in the capacity of MEPs together with some colleagues from the ACP countries and two days prior to our visit, Saskia von Meyenfeldt, a UNICEF worker and a number of civilians from south-east Burundi had been murdered.
We asked for an inquiry to take place following a general resolution; this was originally to be an independent inquiry. A Burundi representative, however, lodged objections and after that, we had to use the term "inquiry" .
Well, in this resolution, we mention an independent inquiry, and this enables us to make it clear that we would like not just the parties involved, so not just the Burundian government, to give their opinion but we would also like to see the actual facts surface.
We would appreciate it if the Commission could ensure that its EU ambassadors in the region could collate information on this matter and duly inform us.
My second point concerns the fact that the conflict in question is far more extensive. Since 1993, some 200,000 have been killed and 800,000 displaced.
Sometimes it is good to quote these figures, because in the light of what is happening on our doorstep in Kosovo, we sometimes forget that a conflict of such dimensions is still taking place in an area of Central Africa.
It remains an urgent requirement to promote a stability pact using all contacts we have through the European Commission' s links with the United Nations and to promote the political awareness and energy of those who work there, so as to arrive at a stability pact.
I hope we succeed in sending out a clear message from within Europe that human rights cannot and should not be split up, and that we do not only attach importance to them in relation to Kosovo, but also where this Central-African region is concerned.
I hope that both resolutions go some way towards achieving this.
Mr President, once again we are called upon to discuss the situation in Rwanda.
Yesterday we were deploring genocide and violations of human rights.
Today, indeed, we can only be outraged at the release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza, supposedly for technical reasons, even though he was one of the most significant parties in the incitement to genocide.
His release, indeed, is quite symptomatic of the lack of will to make an evaluation of the genocide and, more especially, of the wish to hush up the involvement of European countries, particularly France, where a recent parliamentary inquiry revealed complicity that was, at the best, passive.
Let us also stress that the Rwandan situation, as worrying as it is, more particularly affects the stability of neighbouring countries, and the situation in the Congo is quite tragic from this point of view.
It is essential today for the European Parliament to assert clearly that, in order to ensure stability in this region, the conditions must be created for a peace which is based on justice and the prosecution of those responsible for ethnic violence.
This is why we are asking the ICTR to review its position regarding Mr Barayagwiza' s release, in consideration of the seriousness of the charges against him. Without some action of this sort, the populations of Rwanda are likely to feel they have been wronged and ethnic conflict is likely to start up again with renewed vigour.
We also ask the Rwandan government to resume its relations with the ICTR.
This is why it is essential to put an end to the conditions of impunity which are prevailing in these countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to subscribe to what the previous speakers have said and at the same time express my indignation at and disappointment with our own attitude.
We wait until a white person is murdered before we take renewed interest in a conflict in Burundi that has taken so many thousands of people into their graves.
I would also like to mention the camps which, in Dutch, we refer to as "hergroepingskampen" (regrouping camps).
This term stands for concentration camps, this is what they really are.
In these camps, they section people off based on their ethnic origin so as to facilitate covert genocide.
I would therefore urge that the European Union take the situation in Rwanda, Burundi and Congo a great deal more seriously.
This week, I heard the advisor of the Council, the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy, and I hope that we will be able, at some stage, to help create for others the stability that we want for ourselves.
Mr President, Commissioner and Colleagues, as someone who has worked in and known Rwanda since 1984, as someone born in Tanzania where I lived for many years, as someone speaking the main African language of the Great Lakes region, I speak on this subject with experience and knowledge.
Genocide in any country is evil and must be condemned without reservation.
Whoever is responsible for such genocide must be indicted, and justice must be seen to be done.
There cannot be any immunity for anyone from such prosecution.
The International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha must do its work efficiently, and we hope that those doing this work will take measures to bring this process to a just and speedy end.
Only four trials have been completed in five years, and this delay has allowed some perpetrators of genocide to go free on technicalities.
This is not acceptable.
We need to evaluate the work of the tribunal to identify the weaknesses so that we can furnish appropriate assistance to ensure high standards of justice without wasting time and resources.
The innocent victims of genocide and conflict cannot wait for ever to rebuild their lives in order to live in peace in their own villages and in their own homes.
This resolution, agreed by all political groups in this Parliament, expresses clearly our concerns, hopes and expectations.
It is now up to the government of Rwanda and those of neighbouring countries to take serious action to bring about genuine peace in the area.
They need to cooperate fully with the EU special envoy, the EU, the United Nations, the OAU and all humanitarian aid agencies in doing what is needed to support peace and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region in general.
Mr President, Burundi, as has been stated earlier, is on the brink of another catastrophe.
Rebel attacks, army cleansing, hundreds of thousands of refugees falling prey to starvation and disease and an economy which is ruined beyond repair.
Some even claim that the situation is comparable to that in Rwanda just before the genocide in 1994.
Despite this, Europe is adopting a back-seat approach again.
Because the Member States apparently cannot agree on how to tackle the crisis in the Great Lakes Region, we leave Burundi to African countries, some of which are involved in the crisis.
We link our aid to the Arusha peace process where Tanzania acts as mediator but at the same time condone the fact that rebels carry out attacks on Burundi from the same country.
We refuse to cooperate for fundamental reasons with a government that has managed nonetheless to acquire Parliament' s support.
The question is very much whether, in this way, we are not playing into the hands of the extremists, both amongst the rebels and within the army.
Do we want Hutu extremist movements to seize power in Burundi and commit renewed genocide on a minority?
Or are we waiting for a new coup and Tutsi extremists from the army to start renewed cleansing?
If we do not want this, let us then give our full support to the peace process in Burundi.
Let us bring the moderate parties round the table and isolate the extremists.
Let us give unconditional aid to the population and kick-start the economy.
Let us finally take Burundi' s problem seriously.
In any case, we will never be able to say: we did not know.
Mr President, of the great number of problems affecting Rwanda and Burundi I should like on behalf of my Group to speak about the latest events, that is say, what took place on 6 November, i.e. a few days ago, when the Rwanda government announced that it would refuse further cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha.
We took some pride in the fact that this Tribunal was set up at all - with our assistance too - whether it was adequate is a more complicated matter - in order to clear up these inhuman crimes and to punish the respective perpetrators.
As an initial reaction, this attitude of the Rwandan government is even understandable, but the conclusion that it drew from it, i.e. now to refuse further cooperation with this Tribunal, is entirely the wrong one.
We cannot understand - and I express myself carefully here - that the presumed architect of the genocide, Barayagwiza, on the basis of procedural issues - and this is hard to swallow - was released and not brought before the court at all.
He was, after all, the political director in the foreign ministry of a regime that was responsible for the deaths of 800 000 people - we should really say for the slaughter of 800 000 people.
This person, who has now been released, was a leading official in the state radio at the very time when the radio was urging and inciting people on to racial hatred.
Our Group has a two-fold demand: on the one hand to the Rwanda government, to cancel its decision and on the other hand to the Tribunal to revise this decision.
In particular, it is not acceptable that the Tribunal refer to the fact that a further charge in the same case is inadmissible owing to the "not guilty" verdict.
For charges of this kind there can be no immunity.
Mr President, I shall take the statements that I must answer in order, first on the subject of Rwanda, then Burundi.
As far as Rwanda is concerned, the Commission shares the concerns which have been expressed regarding the effectiveness of the system of justice, if I may use this diplomatic term, to judge those responsible for genocide.
No national reconciliation is possible without proper court procedures, and that involves both the Rwandan national justice system and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
To answer Mrs Ries, regarding the Rwandan national system of justice, the Commission targeted its interventions at institutional support to the government departments in the area of reinforcement of defence rights and civil cases, in the area of improving living standards in prisons and in the area of support for the survivors of genocide, as well as in the area of respect for human rights.
Nonetheless, there are still 130,000 prisoners in prison, accused of crimes related to genocide, awaiting trial.
The Rwandan Government is looking for alternative formulae which do not leave room for impunity, and which go in the direction we would like.
It is working on defining a system of courts of arbitration along the lines of traditional practice, where the courts are made up of citizens elected to the various levels of local administration, and they would be established to judge three categories of defendant: firstly, ordinary murderers, secondly, those who assaulted but did not kill, and thirdly, finally, the looters, leaving the instigators and ideologists of the genocide and massacres to be judged effectively by ordinary courts, which must be organised in some way to be able to take on this task.
With the other backers, the Commission is currently assessing the opportunities and methods to contribute to the establishment of this system within the framework of our cooperation.
As far as the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda is concerned, the Commission allocated finance from the very creation of this tribunal, totalling EUR 1.5 million to date.
The Commission is going to initiate an evaluation of human rights programmes in developing countries.
Particular attention will be paid to the countries or projects we have supported, such as the one I have just mentioned.
This evaluation will include support for the International Criminal Tribunal and its conclusions will enable us to identify any new support according to the methods we shall assess in the light of this investigation.
As far as Burundi is concerned, we, too, are extremely concerned at the situation of increasing violence in this country.
What are we doing in response to this?
I know and I can see that it is always ridiculous to cite aid figures in the face of such calamities.
I nonetheless believe that these are the only real proof we can offer to show what we are doing to act on these concerns of yours.
The real criticism you might make, which would hit home, is that we are passive in this type of situation.
I believe we are not being passive in this particular instance.
I should like to give you some examples of this.
We have supported the peace process by financing the talks taking place in Arusha, with a contribution of EUR 2 million, which is far from being the largest contribution and which should, along with other external finance, be sufficient for the successful conclusion of these talks.
It is true that the passing of the facilitator, ex-President Nyerere, is one more obstacle to add to the complexity of the process itself.
We think that it is essential for the talks to continue while seeking a new facilitator at the same time.
The intensification of the confrontations, in recent months, has given rise to the displacement of some tens of thousands of people who have, in effect, as has been mentioned in this debate, been forcibly detained in camps by the government since last July.
We intervened immediately to provide humanitarian aid, with aid of more than EUR one million over three operations, and we are prepared to continue to intervene in order to meet the most urgent needs next year.
The total ECHO contribution to Burundi reached around EUR 10 million this year.
At a meeting in New York at the start of the year, the backers of Burundi decided to contribute towards improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable sectors of the population and to target their support at the rehousing of displaced persons.
In the context of these positions, the Commission approved a redevelopment programme of around EUR 50 million, which may be implemented according to the security conditions in the country.
We feel that the complete resumption of cooperation is linked to the results of the peace process, and to the establishment of a political and constitutional framework which will lead, finally, to democratisation.
This is the answer which I wished to give you, Mr President.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30. p.m.
Pakistan
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolution:
B5-0269/99 by Mr Van den Bos and Mrs Thors, on behalf of the ELDR Group;
B5-0277/99 by Mr Vinci and Mr Brie, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group;
B5-0278/99 by Mr Thomas Mann, on behalf of the PPE (Christian Democrats)/DE Group;
B5-0286/99 by Mr Schori, on behalf of the PSE (Social Democrats) Group;
B5-0296/99 by Mrs Lambert and Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group
on the declaration of a state of emergency in Pakistan.
This resolution sets out the concerns that must be shared by the world-wide community about the deterioration of stability in Pakistan and in its neighbouring territories.
We are certainly right to regret the military take-over but it would be sensible to recognise that the new military regime is so far extremely popular within Pakistan.
Pakistan clearly expects General Musharraf to succeed in stopping a long series of corrupt and illiberal factions.
The Sharif and Bhutto regimes have misruled their country for many years.
Certainly the military are tackling the financial fraud that exists on a massive scale with vigour.
This motion speaks wrongly of the need for democracy to be reinstalled or reinstated. It should be a calling for progress towards democracy and proposing a practical programme for the European Union that will facilitate that progress.
Fighting corruption is an essential first step.
I trust that the Portuguese Presidency will use its renowned skills and experience to develop European Union appreciation of the problems that confront Pakistan and I would welcome Mr Lamy's opinion on the current status of the Cooperation Agreement.
Mr President, the military coup that took place in Pakistan in October immediately after the army Chief-of-Staff, General Musharraf was stood down is condemned in the strongest possible terms by the PPE/DE Group.
The constitution was declared to be invalid.
The national parliament and the provincial parliaments were temporarily suspended.
Even if the take-over of power by the military occurred without great protests from the population, there is no alternative to a properly functioning democracy brought about by free elections.
The attempt to prove that the former Prime Minister Mr Sharif had participated in a criminal conspiracy and had built up a system of nepotism, should not become a show trial.
Any legal proceedings must be fair and transparent to the general public.
On meeting the EU' s special envoy, Walter Sari, on 2 November, General Musharraf rejected a timetable for the establishment of democracy.
There is therefore no reason why the EU should be prepared to follow other states, which think that the stability programme that has been announced has a good chance of success.
The first signs are quite hopeful: the assurance of a climate favourable to investment, tax relief, the thinning out of the bureaucracy and the ending of the personal enrichment of those in charge.
The national banks must stop the custom of awarding generous loans to officials.
The new, stricter anti-corruption legislation is a step in the right direction.
The loss of confidence and flight of capital can only be stopped if democracy is restored and human rights are guaranteed.
International investment has been suspended until the IMF accepts Pakistan as a full partner.
We therefore demand that the military government return to constitutional rule.
Politics must be taken over by a democratic legitimate civil government.
The suspension of both Commonwealth membership and the European Union Cooperation Agreement can only be reversed when all the conditions for the urgently needed economic, social and humanitarian reforms in Pakistan are met.
Mr President, our colleagues have already spoken about the military coup.
I should once again like to emphasise what Mr Duff and Mr Mann have said.
For decades elected, but altogether corrupt governments and most recently that of Mr Nawaz Sharif, have allowed violations of human rights, slave labour, social disasters and a foreign debt that is out of control to be part of daily life in Pakistan and all this has led to the ruin of the country.
The same governments supported the fundamentalist murderous regime of the Taliban in Afghanistan and represent a constant incalculable risk to peace in the region because they support and stir up terrorist activity in the border region of Kashmir against their Indian neighbours.
Despite everything, we should not allow ourselves to consider the military coup as a possible alternative to the incompetence and corruption of an elected government.
We condemn most strongly the military coup in Pakistan and urge those in power to restore the rule of law and constitutional order immediately by setting up a civil transitional government in accordance with a clear timetable to restore parliamentary legitimacy by holding elections.
These should be the preconditions to be fulfilled before the Council signs the suspended Cooperation Agreement with Pakistan.
The EU as a whole must adopt an unambiguous position towards Pakistan, which stresses that for us, democratic principles can neither be negotiable nor the subject of compromises and that any future would-be dictator must prevent such dreadful behaviour.
I too like many colleagues was interested in the response of many people of Pakistani origin and background to this coup - people who are themselves involved in democratic politics and concerned about good democratic practice.
They were not appalled.
So that reaction adds weight to our awareness of much that was wrong under the previous regime, for example the lack of protection for the rights of religious minorities and the increasing abuse of the blasphemy law which was introduced after the military take-over in 1958.
Under the previous regime we also saw a growing abuse of human rights, of people such as the Sindhi.
We look at what will be happening to political prisoners under this regime as a clear indicator of its intentions.
I am also concerned at reports that the military were motivated by the feeling that the Sharif government was not doing enough to protect and maintain the Federation of Pakistan.
I find that particularly worrying when I remember its developing nuclear capability.
We believe that the conduct of the trial of the former prime minister will also be a clear sign as to the military's good intentions to return to, or rather not to return but to introduce good democratic government to Pakistan.
Mr President, as regards Pakistan, as you know, the situation was discussed in the General Affairs Council on 15 November.
The Union, and I believe this is clear to everyone, is extremely concerned at this coup d' état and fervently hopes for the restoration of democracy in the near future.
The Council is waiting to see that the assurances given by the interim administration, as it is called, relating to respect for human rights and civil liberties, are respected unconditionally, and that all charges against the deposed Prime Minister, Mr Nawaz Sharif, are heard according to proper legal form in a civilian court open to the public.
As regards the specific points you have raised in the resolutions relating to the Commission' s development aid programmes and projects in Pakistan, it must be stressed that these are directed almost exclusively at the poorest and most disadvantaged levels of the population.
Many of these projects are implemented by NGOs and are intended to improve the scope and quality of social sector services, particularly in the fields of primary education and health care.
The commitments for Community projects currently amount to some EUR 180 million in total and the Commission proposes to continue to implement these projects.
We feel that suspending aid to underprivileged groups would be an inappropriate sanction upon them.
We are perfectly aware of the deplorable situation of a great many children in Pakistan, especially girls, but we feel that the most effective means of improving this situation is to contribute towards ensuring good quality, accessible, universal primary education.
We are also participating in a project with the International Labour Organisation for the rehabilitation of children employed in dangerous work in Pakistan.
Work on the new projects to be financed under next year' s budget has currently been suspended, while waiting for developments in the evaluation of the new situation over there.
We acknowledge the need to assist the NGOs and civilian sector associations in order to strengthen the democratic institutions of the country, and you doubtless know that the capacity for absorption and the size of the many NGOs in this field in Pakistan are, unfortunately, limited.
In addition, we have established contact with several NGOs and associations, but we feel that care must be taken not to overload these organisations with funds and assistance, which may not subsequently be managed in the most efficient way possible.
In order to reply specifically to Mr Duff' s question, following the coup d' état, the Union cancelled the signing of the new cooperation agreement between the Community and Pakistan, and we suspended our political dialogue so as to send a message, loud and clear, to the new masters in Pakistan regarding our concerns about the coup d' état and its consequences.
I believe I have answered your question specifically, Mr Duff.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
(The sitting was suspended at 5.20 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
We shall now proceed to the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Vote (continuation)
I should just like to say that in principle of course I was in favour of this resolution, but that I do feel that something very dangerous has been started here, that is, the systematic abuse of resolutions for an ideological debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We should take this Charter of Fundamental Rights so seriously that we prepare it with a considerable, almost constitutional majority here in the House by consensus and not by half measures in resolutions.
I believe that this Charter on Fundamental Rights must be discussed carefully and that it should not detach the rights of the child from the parents' rights, the rights of the family and the parents' right to educate their children in the family.
These are elementary points that must be discussed in depth and not superficially and at top speed.
- (FR) At this time when we are about to vote on the resolution on the rights of the child, I wish to declare the importance which I attach to this legislation.
This vote has nothing to do with any others in which I have participated during this session.
It reminds me of my motive for taking up politics, which may be summed up as follows: to improve, as far as may be possible, the daily lot of human beings!
This may seem presumptuous, given the scope of the task, but it is my profound conviction.
And even though I know that this vote will not radically change the tragic situation of thousands of children here or elsewhere, it does testify to the political will of this Parliament to make progress!
Declaring that it is intolerable for children to be forced to go to work instead of to school, for children not to be able to eat their fill, for children to be sold as if they were marketable goods, for children to be the victims of adult physical or moral violence, already represents a great step forward, one which must of course be put into effect in our policies and our daily life!
Let us act like responsible men and women (politicians)!
The Convention whose anniversary we are celebrating today has made it possible to achieve considerable progress since it places the child at the centre of the debate!
Children are human beings; they are people with rights.
We must respect them, protect them, educate them and love them!
.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child represents the most successful Convention in international law, with signatories in all countries of the world except Somalia and the USA.
The aims of the Convention account for the unprecedented international reaction: measures to be implemented in international law to protect the rights of the most innocent, most vulnerable of the world's citizens.
The draft resolution which we have voted today seeks to ensure that the elements enshrined within this convention are protected in other legal bases and frameworks.
In doing this, we are seeking to be a voice for the voiceless, and protect those who are unable to protect themselves.
Children must be protected by those who have their interests at heart.
We must emphasise, therefore, the role of the family in safeguarding children, especially parents.
The state, in its attempt to provide a legal basis for the protection and treatment of children must bow to the pre-eminent right which parents have in protecting, raising and safeguarding their children.
We must ensure that the family, to quote the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is 'afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community'.
Promoting the rights of children is a topic dear to the hearts of all of us here today.
It is at the same time a great privilege and a grave responsibility to work to create legislation and legal instruments for the protection of children.
Ensuring the protection of children must go hand in hand with measures which promote and protect the family.
A strong family unit is essential to ensuring the protection of children.
The preamble to the Convention states that the child, in order to realise 'the full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment'.
Articles 5, 7, 9, 14, and others enshrine the responsibilities and rights of parents in relation to the raising of their children.
It is absolutely crucial that parental rights are enshrined and ensured in order to protect the full rights of children.
.
I welcome the focus in the House today on the rights of children.
Children, as the most vulnerable and defenceless members of society need extra rights and extra protection.
It is a privilege for me to be part of a process that can begin to ensure that this protection is provided.
The family, as was recognised by the drafters of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is fundamental in protecting and promoting the rights of the child.
It is in families that children learn the values of 'peace, dignity, tolerance, freedom, equality and solidarity' (preamble), as well as the skills necessary to implement these values in society throughout their lives.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child recognises the responsibilities of parents in providing the proper care and attention to their children, as well as the child's right to receive this care, guidance, and love.
I am happy to support the motion on the floor today which will ensure that these rights are supported - the rights of parents to raise their children, and the rights of children to that protection and support.
Chechnya
Mr President, those of us who represent the Stateless nations of Europe passionately denounce the latest aggression which, at this turn of the century, is being committed by the Russian army in an abusive manner against the small country of Chechnya.
Russia is causing destruction, and the death of civilians - including old people, women and children - as well as an exodus which exceeds that of Kosovo.
All of this because a new Rasputin wants to gain popularity in Russia and take power as a new President, and to this end he thinks nothing of seriously endangering democracy, the Rule of Law and the economic reforms of the Russian Federation.
We cannot accept it and therefore we condemn it outright.
Mr President, this resolution on Chechnya is the most far-reaching there has ever been at international level and that is a credit to this House, for in the first war too, we contributed decisively to a peace agreement being signed.
However, I am disappointed that our amendment, which on the basis of the human rights clause in the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement of this agreement will be placed on ice in the context of this war, will not be adopted by the House.
I have the impression that we need much stricter measures than in the resolution we have so far shown to arrive at a cease-fire at all and to ensure that the bombing of the civilian population can finally cease and for it to be declared an internal problem.

I believe that today at the OSCE meeting - this subject is being discussed at the same time over in Istanbul -, it is necessary for there to be a real possibility that will lead to peace negotiations, for the problem in the Caucasus cannot be resolved in the way the Russians want and I therefore feel it is very important for us not to just stand still, but that in particular the Commission also takes up this appeal and threatens to take action such as freezing new TACIS agreements so that it actually affects them and is not just something here on paper.
It is a matter of great concern that I should like to make quite clear once again on behalf of my Group.
For us the resolution does not go far enough, but it is a first step - hopefully to a peaceful solution in the region.
- (FR) On the pretext of attacking fundamentalist terrorism, the leaders of Russia are conducting a despicable war in Chechnya.
The Russian army is chiefly making attacks on the civilian population, an increasing proportion of whom are being forced to flee to neighbouring regions, only to be packed together in inhuman conditions.
Once again it is the civilian population which is suffering from the consequences of the destruction of towns, villages and infrastructure of a country which is already very poor.
The war is also a criminal one as regards the Russian people itself.
Thousands of young men are forced to wage this dirty war which can have no positive outcome for either themselves or for their parents and elders.
At a time when the transition to a capitalist economy is having the effect of causing a fall in production levels and the considerable impoverishment of the majority of the population, considerable sums of money are being swallowed up by the war effort, not to mention the cost of the corruption associated with it.
We denounce the Russian leaders who are responsible for this war, but we also denounce the leaders of the Western world who make do with a mild reproach, while supporting Yeltsin and his clan, anxious as they are to protect them.
In bombing the towns and villages of Chechnya, the Russian army is doing what the Western armies did a few months ago in bombing Kosovo and Serbia.
Two wrongs do not make a right, but these crimes do shed light on the deep complicity of the governments, to the detriment of the peoples concerned.
This is the explanation for our abstention.
That concludes the vote.
EU action plan to combat drugs (continuation)
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (A5-0063/1999) by Ms Giannakou-Koutsikou, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on a European Union Action Plan to Combat Drugs (2000-2004) (COM(1999)239).
Mr President, first of all let me thank Marietta Giannakou most warmly because she has opened up the opportunity today by means of an exchange, to deal with the vote on Eurodac and thereby to create the conditions under which we can introduce this fingerprint checking.
This is a very important report.
I should first like to quote some figures so that you have an idea of the scale of the drug trade.
First, we are dealing with the drug trade that in the meantime represents 8% of the volume of trade and makes billions in profits at the expense of young people and our families.
Within the European Union we annually seize some 600 tonnes of cannabis.
As far as the consumption of drugs is concerned, it is a fact that as many as 5 million young people take synthetic drugs and some 20% have tried cannabis.
The legal position in Europe is extremely unsatisfactory.
In the eyes of the citizens of Europe the battle against drug crime should be treated as an absolute priority.
I therefore believe that Marietta Giannakou' s report is especially important and the action plan is something really fundamental that can help us in this field.
It contains broad strategies, from prevention to repression to reintegration.
It does not allow for any liberalisation or legalisation and sets priorities and brings domestic and foreign policy together in order to be able to combat drugs successfully.
These are ambitious goals, but in reality it will not be easy, as up to now it has not been possible to obtain comparable data for individual Member States and to compare the methods and as long as we do not have this comparison of methods and dates it will also not be possible to achieve 'best practice' as a model.
Prevention has little support and the youth programmes are not designed for support in combating drugs.
The European Union makes relatively little money available.
So what are the feasible and absolutely essential demands that we must make?
The first thing for me is that it is vital for the prevention policy to be intensified.
I can see that there is quite a good chance of us attempting on a voluntary basis to declare schools as drug-free areas, to make it clear to schoolchildren through education that a life without drugs should be their main goal.
We therefore need the support of the European Union programmes such as SOCRATES and LEONARDO.
Secondly, we must urge the Member States most emphatically that we should finally obtain a standardised system of data and method registration so that it is possible to find the best models in the battle against drugs We must encourage cooperation between the police and the judiciary in the countries of Europe in the battle against drug crime and to protect young people.
We must make the European Union programmes such as FALQONE, GROTIUS or OISIN more productive, organise them more efficiently and make more funds available.
So with the action plan we have a good programme.
It is, however, a matter of getting to work on turning this programme into action in the battle against drugs and for young people and for a drug-free society as a whole.
That must be the aim, even if it is very difficult to achieve.
Mr President, we would have liked the debate and the vote on this report not to have to take place today because - and I should like to say this right at the beginning - owing to the circumstances that led to the agenda being amended today and because of the fact that the voting time took so long because of the long Napolitano, Leinen, Dimitrakopoulos and Schwaiger reports, we will be voting on Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou' s report tomorrow morning.
Friday morning in Strasbourg is the day when there is the most pressure.
Tomorrow the plenary sitting will be bursting with Members crowding in to vote on the Giannakou report.
If there are fifty, that will be a lot.
I venture to make this comment because it is a glaring contradiction to the other assertion that Mrs Giannakou' s report is so important and it should therefore absolutely be discussed and voted on this week.
There is no logic behind that.
In fact, our colleague' s report is an important report and must be discussed very carefully, among other reasons because the debate on the report has once again shown that drugs policy in the European Union is one of the most controversial subjects that we have ever had to discuss.
I would first of all address a comment to the rapporteur.
I believe that Mrs Giannakou has taken a lot of trouble to give an opinion on the action plan in a form that was geared to a consensus and was determined in such a way as to integrate the different ways of looking at the situation that not only go right through the political "families" but are also characterised by national traditions, by different factors and by partially conflicting interests.
So our Group wishes to thank the rapporteur most warmly.
I will say on behalf of my absent colleague Jan Andersson, who as a Swedish Member of Parliament - I shall speak about that again in a minute - was in a very difficult position, because Sweden is one of the Member States that has a very special approach to drugs policy, owing to its national experience and national tradition and which despite this I believe, as you do, Mrs Giannakou, with the compromise amendments have ensured that this report is actually structured in such a way that it will receive broad approval.
128 amendments were submitted and you finally formulated 17 or 18 compromise amendments that should help to focus this profusion of amendments so that in the end a logical and conclusive report by the Parliament emerges on this action plan.
The words "logical" and "conclusive" really mean that three essential aspects have to be taken into consideration.
Firstly, all of us, whether on the right or left of this House must be clear and I do believe that the approach to drug policy must start from one premise: drug addicts do not on principle need punishment and persecution but help and support.
That is really self-evident.
Why do I have to mention that again here?
Because the way in which we help these people to reintegrate into society, the way in which we reduce their personal, individual suffering must derive from specific regional, local and national experiences.
So there cannot be an officially prescribed European drugs policy but there must be a European framework within which help can be provided to the people affected who are the focus here, on the basis of the specific experiences of the local and regional authorities.
The second aspect is that in our drugs policy we must bear in mind that in hardly any other branch of crime in Europe is more money earned than in the drug trade.
That means that we can talk about reducing the supply, which is a very important factor but it still means that those people who supply drugs on the market must be pursued regardless.
For this we need criminal law and the police.
But we also need a factor that I feel has not been touched on adequately in the debate. Those people who deal in drugs generally do so if it is on a large scale, intending to make a profit and to enrich themselves.
Everywhere we succeed in preventing illegal income from drug dealing from being converted into legal income, we have made great progress, that is to say, the battle against the drug trade and money laundering are phenomena that are linked.
Policy on combating drugs - I address this to the Commissioner for internal security - therefore means that by reducing the supply there will be the resulting prosecution of the drug dealer, particularly in the area of money laundering.
This is the third and final aspect, with which I will conclude. We all have different experiences.
In one country in the European Union there is a rather permissive approach, in another a rather restrictive one.
Overall if we consider the results of the Drug Monitoring Centre in Lisbon - almost everywhere there is an equally high drugs rate.
This means that whatever the approach we adopt at present we are equally successful or unsuccessful.
This means that we should set the parameters at a European scale and that implementation should be subsidiary and based on the respective national experiences.
Mr President, it has to be said, the European Parliament has been divided over the drugs policy for years.
By and large, there are three shades of opinion discernible in this House.
Firstly, the followers of the Swedish model which, apart from treating drug addicts, emphasises the control of narcotics.
Secondly, there are the followers of the Dutch model, which tends more towards the treatment of drug addicts than control.
The Dutch model which allows drug shops, which in the Netherlands are given the unfortunate English term "coffee shops" , presupposes a division between soft drugs, namely marihuana, and hard drugs, such as heroin and ecstasy.
These two groups, the followers of the Swedish model and those of the Dutch model, do not want too much European cooperation in this field because they fear that their national policy might be affected.
Alongside these two groups, there is a third trend represented in this Parliament, namely those who do advocate more extensive and intensive European cooperation in the drugs policy, so that the various approaches which I have described above can grow towards each other.
This means that countries like France and Germany should do more to treat their drug addicts but that a country like the Netherlands, for example, should focus on controlling the drugs nuisance created by the "coffee shops" and on drugs tourism.
These three trends are also represented in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
I am therefore pleased to say that most of my group colleagues can vote in favour of Mrs Giannakou' s report.
We find it an interesting report which fortunately disregards the issue of legalising narcotics and looks at the measures to be taken by the European Union.
On 6 November last, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, advocated stronger European cooperation in the field of drug control.
He did this further to reports of Italian youngsters using ecstasy which largely originated from my country, the Netherlands.
Mr Prodi' s remarks caused a huge commotion in the Netherlands.
I personally agree with Mr Prodi.
If the European Union is intent on dealing with transnational crime forcefully, then this should also include the control of drug trafficking.
In fact, that is Europol' s first task.
Ecstasy is a hard drug which is lethal, as recent events in Italy have shown.
Those supporting the legalisation of soft drugs should also be open to European cooperation.
Indeed, a Member State could not legalise drugs on its own, this could only be done at European level.
Mr President, if there is one issue for which we should keep our heads cool and our wits about us then it must be the drugs policy.
The present report drafted by Mrs Giannakou is not exactly a shining example of this clarity.
The debate is not being conducted in a very level-headed way.
There is too much bellicose rhetoric and frankly, too much hullabaloo.
We have noticed that slowly but surely this House has made some prudent steps in the right direction when it comes to dealing with this complex issue.
This is certainly evident if we compare the present debate and text with those of a couple of years ago.
At that time, hellfire and damnation were not punishment enough for Members who dared mention the words harm reduction or a therapeutic approach.
To most people in this House, it was completely inconceivable that, apart from a repressive approach to the drugs policy, other, more effective strategies could also be developed.
The Giannakou report represents a clear improvement on a number of points.
It recognises the importance of urban and regional policy experiments, refers to harm reduction and is prepared to evaluate different pluralistic therapeutic approaches.
Not very revolutionary and only a small step forward. But it gives cause for hope that bad practices can be compared on the basis of accurate data and that a humane and effective drugs policy will become a likelihood in an integrated European Union.
The way in which these positive elements are formulated, however, leaves too much scope for opposing interpretations.
Positive developments evident from the text cannot compete with the repressive mood which is still prevailing.
Think, for example, of the enforced rehabilitation of drug addicts in prisons.
This leads to inhumane situations and is not very effective if not taken on board out of one' s own free will.
The objective of the aid policy should not be restricted to achieving total abstinence in the long run.
One can live with drugs, as is the case - to many people' s delight - with alcohol and tobacco and as is the case with Prozac and Valium.
Does the rapporteur' s ferocious war declaration apply here too?
After all, research has shown that a good joint is less harmful and addictive than some socially accepted drugs.
Possibilities other than rehabilitation are still not mentioned in this report, although it is established practice in more and more Member States to supply drugs in a controlled manner, sometimes with very promising results.
The rapporteur is of the opinion that a fatalistic outlook encourages drug abuse.
This is a fallacy intended to sharpen the senseless war against drug abuse.
It exacerbates marginalisation and crime and will lead to more crime.
It is a repressive instrument which, unlike the addict, profits from this approach.
Mr President, when I was 18 years old, there were no problems with drugs.
We had of course heard that there were such things as drugs, but they were substances we were unfamiliar with and had never encountered. It was said however that some people got their doctors to supply them with substances they would otherwise not have had access to.
Nor did we have open borders.
We had no traffic from Third World countries, and nor did we have very much money so, even if the supply of drugs had been there, we would not, I am sure, have been able to buy them. The main point, however, was that we did not see any need for them.
Today, the world looks rather different.
It is open, and the Schengen Agreement has opened the borders between our countries to such a degree that we do not have much opportunity to exercise supervision.
The fact which has to be faced is that the criminal forces which are involved in the manufacture and trading of drugs have a network, resources and powers which have far overtaken the constitutional states' ability to stop the drugs traffic.
That is why there is a need for a Community policy for, in the situation in which the European Union finds itself, we must necessarily work together to combat cross-border crime.
The report we have before us is quite excellent in what it says on a number of matters, and it points out with some clarity that, if we do not step up the war against the drug barons and financiers and their money laundering, then the constitutional states, our populations and our youth will lose out in this war.
But the report also contains forms of words which were voted through by the Committee and which must look perfectly harmless, especially to those unfamiliar with these matters.
They are concepts like harm reduction. And who would not want to reduce harm; who would not want to help people overtaken by a form of suffering as serious as drug dependency.
Naturally, we all of us want to, and what we immediately think about in this connection is treatment, which is to say efforts involving a variety of social and medical provisions.
But that is not what in fact lies behind the concept.
Harm reduction means something quite different in the mouths of those who do not want to see a strict drugs policy pursued.
May I say that I am completely at a loss to understand that philosophy, for drug abuse is not nowadays an isolated problem, affecting only the socially needy.
I am well aware that it affects people who feel isolated or who are in social need, but these in fact constitute only a few of the people who today are victims of drug abuse.
What our problem today is, is that young people, who may have good home lives, at the same time feel that their lives are so empty that they need an extra lift or trip on Saturday at the discotheque and to have their mood raised with the help of a drug they are lured into believing is harmless.
In this connection, I cannot refrain from saying that I think that the speech which Mrs Buitenweg made here a moment ago is dangerous.
I think it is dangerous for young people because it tempts them into believing - and I quote her - that "one can live with drugs, as is the case with alcohol and tobacco" .
I am well aware that you can become dependent upon tobacco.
It also takes a relatively large number of years before you get lung cancer from it.
I am well aware that you can become dependent upon alcohol, and I also know that there are people who lose their lives through alcohol abuse. However, there is a crucial difference in the case of tobacco and alcohol because, in the vast majority of cases, it is possible for people to control their use of these substances to a different degree than young people who have got mixed up in drug abuse are able to control their use of drugs.
I therefore want to say that it is important that, in the work that is being done within the EU, we give a very central place to having an information campaign for young people, who may today all too easily be enticed by friends of their own age and by others to try substances which are presented to them as being harmless and as things no worse to take than an extra glass of beer or an extra little whisky.
It is in fact something different we are talking about here, and it has not become dangerous because it is forbidden; rather, it is forbidden because it is dangerous.
So let us get away from this nonsense about decriminalisation and this tendency to trivialise the whole problem area by closing our eyes to the criminals who exploit our young people and destroy their health.
My group is a keen participant in the work which has been taking place in the Committee, and I should like to thank Mrs Giannakou for the sterling work she has done in this connection.
We do not consider that, with the report we have before us and with what it contains, the definitive and best outcome has been obtained, and we very much hope that the Commissioner will be able to find still more effective and more powerful methods of combating this alarming misuse of drugs.
Mr President, the report of the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, describing the Commission' s plan of action regarding drug control is a powerful document in which the European Parliament strongly opposes drugs.
The European Commission does the same in its plan of action.
It has opted for a two-pronged approach: to control and prevent the demand for drugs and call for a hard-line approach regarding the supply of drugs.
Over the past couple of months, the drugs issue has been in the limelight rather a great deal.
The Tampere Summit underlined once more that the problem in Europe should be approached in a comprehensive manner.
The President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, indicated last week that an "internal market for the trade in drugs" has come about in the Union.
He claimed that this clearly calls for coordination of policy, even legislative harmonisation within those countries which, on account of their diverging policy, are playing into the hands of the trade.
Given the many irritated Dutch reactions, this remark really hit home.
Unfortunately, however, Mr Prodi denied that he was talking about the Netherlands.
Alas, my country does not only have the dubious honour of being known as a transit country for drugs, it is now also building itself a reputation for producing synthetic drugs.
Several young people have since died of the effects of these synthetic drugs.
This is really scandalous!
I would urge Mr Prodi to call a spade a spade; the Netherlands is one of those countries that play into the hands of the trade on account of its diverging policy.
I can certainly see the benefits of the Dutch policy.
For example, the care for addicts is excellent.
On the demand side, many sound initiatives have been developed.
But this serves little purpose if we continue to be blinkered regarding the supply side.
It is about time that the Netherlands draws up a balance sheet; at international and European level, the Dutch policy does not fit in and creates problems.
So time then for a change of course.
It so happens that cooperation at European level is aimed at constructive confrontation.
For this purpose, the plan of action is offering some useful instruments.
Let us undertake this challenge as a matter of priority!
Mr President, as the rapporteur pointed out, the European Commission affirms that neither the regulatory instruments nor the programmes for the Action Plan on the fight against drugs 1995-1999 have been sufficiently assessed.
It is therefore impossible to determine to what extent the objectives laid down have been met.
Given that we are talking about the fight against drugs, the Commission' s Communication is not included on the agenda of the Court of Auditors or even OLAF, but on Parliament' s agenda.
Therefore, illogically, you are preparing to reconfirm the previous plan' s strategies for the next five years.
You will all agree - right as well as left - because when we discuss drugs you restrict yourselves to having simple differences of opinion, and no group is brave enough to put forward alternative strategies.
Indeed, when drugs are under discussion, the vast majority of you renounce your role as a government Member who, when faced with a problem, takes a lead on the issue and tries to resolve it, and, if the solution does not provide positive results or is counterproductive, as in this case, adopts a different policy.
You do not want to examine the possibility of changing the prohibitionist policy on drugs, because, when it comes to political choices, you impose moral convictions and beliefs which are a matter for each individual' s conscience.
In short, on this subject, you prevent true, scientific, secular debate by choosing an ethical approach which proves to be frustrating, ineffective and disastrous: disastrous because you try to justify things with the lack of financial resources.
But how much would it cost to eliminate drug trafficking, a trade that the United Nations says accounts for 8% of world trade?
You refuse to carry out a cost-efficiency assessment because you would have to admit that with your policy you have handed over control of the production and trade in certain substances to a criminal monopoly.
None of this surprises me: during this century crazy and incomprehensible things such as Nazism, Fascism and Communism have managed to gain power.
Prohibition of drugs still remains: ethical, inhuman and anti-scientific madness.
Mr President, the European Parliament is now establishing a policy, that is to say a drugs policy, which has emerged in fits and starts over a period of many years.
It is a firm drugs policy.
Thanks are due to all who have contributed to formulating it including, naturally enough on this particular day, the rapporteur Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, but also Sir Jack Stewart-Clark who has worked with these questions in previous years.
May I perhaps emphasise that it is rather striking that I in particular, as a Swede, am very impressed indeed by this Parliament' s ability to produce what I consider to be a firm drugs policy. In fact, we Swedes have a fairly definite view of these questions.
I think we can now count upon seeing good results in the field of drugs policy.
I am particularly pleased that it is the Group of the European People' s Party' s drugs programme which in fact forms the basis of the present compromise.
There are features which will mean that we embark upon a common road towards fewer drugs and with the goal of leading both society and individuals away from drugs and towards the long-term goal of a society without drugs.
Once these measures which are now being proposed have taken effect, I believe that there will emerge in the Member States a greater sympathetic understanding of the differences between their respective policies.
It is therefore important that it should be precisely that policy which is the best policy which should stand as an example.
I should therefore like to urge the Commission to ensure in particular that the new Member States also have the opportunity to be present when the project is devised.
In my own country, many people, it is true, feel rather discriminated against in this area.
If we are bad at carrying out projects, we should like to improve.
We should, however, also like to be present when assessments of on-going projects are carried out so that we might see which road the European Union will continue to go down.
It is also important that we should comply with the laws of the different countries.
We cannot, in this European Union, step into some kind of grey area of a community governed by law and not comply with our legislation.
If we do not want to comply with our legislation, we must change our legislation and not pursue some kind of policy which does not follow the rules of a State governed by law.
I should like to thank you for the efforts which have been made and urge us all to be very much more committed in the future. We are not there yet by any means.
Rather, there is a very great deal of work which remains to be done.
Unfortunately, many of the amendments on the table here in this Chamber place obstacles in the way, so I hope that many of them will be rejected.
Mr President, given the fact that there are so few of us left and given the concerns for tomorrow morning' s vote, we should perhaps think about the significance of Fridays and their future.
Unlike my colleagues from the Netherlands, Mr Wiebenga and Mr Blokland, I am proud of the Dutch policy.
A hard-line approach on hard drugs, including XTC, is, at the same time, an effective way of lifting victims from the criminal circuit via a health-care approach and is also a policy which, fortunately, is attracting more and more followers elsewhere in Europe.
What is the logic behind it?
The rationale?
One may well wonder following this discussion.
What we have before us is the product of a long and emotionally-laden process and we have not finished by a long way because we are about to vote on this, that is tomorrow morning at 9.00 a.m.
What is the issue?
The Commission has made an announcement regarding a European Union plan of action concerning drug control for the years 2000 to 2004.
Compared with a previous plan of action, this document is clearly a step forward.
We are now on track for a kind of mainstreaming of the drugs policy with the emphasis on prevention, but hardly any guiding choices are being made.
Instead of making choices, we have mainly looked at the fantasy image of what avenues would be open to us once the war against drugs is over.
Until such time, until we have won this war and our society is free from drugs, we are conducting an uncompromising battle against not only the drugs Mafia but also the poor coca farmers in Latin America and also the poppy planters in Asia.
The militarisation of these societies, together with the fact that these poor people are not being given any effective help, means there are no truly sustainable prospects for the future.
Is it not about time we drew up a cost-benefit analysis of what we are doing, which is in fact at the insistence of the US war on drugs?
Are drugs really at least as important as human rights, as suggested by the rapporteur, and why do we not learn from an effective approach as adopted in the Netherlands, for example?
Luckily, further to the Commission' s communication, we are making some room for users and some more room for potential users, young people, by pointing out the harmful effects.
All in all this still has very little bearing on reality.
After all, the Commission has repeatedly highlighted that the plan of action in this respect is merely a supplement.
Perhaps it is so that the call made to the Presidency for an inter-pillar council could be seen as signalling a new opportunity, because this document still feels like a missed opportunity to me.
Few issues so highlight the differences of cultural approach between Member States.
I feel this report reflects a good consensus and I congratulate Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou on the work that she has done in putting it together.
I belong to a growing minority in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and also in this House which believes a radical change to our approach may be needed.
Why?
Quite apart from the ethical flaw in the prohibitionist argument - the state has no right to prevent a responsible adult from taking drugs - the fact is that prohibition is not working.
Our approach, which is based on controlling the supply of drugs, is using up massive resources.
The police in Bristol in my constituency tell me that 85% of all crime is drug-related.
This is destroying our inner cities, where drug dealers find a large market and sometimes even become role models for disenchanted young people.
It is filling our prisons with people who need care rather than incarceration, and it discriminates disproportionately against ethnic minorities, some of which have cultures in which drug abuse is less frowned upon than in others.
But, more importantly, it is helping to fund other forms of criminal activity and strengthening international organised crime.
We need at least to consider switching resources away from attacking the supply of drugs and towards attacking demand.
Mr President, rapporteur, this drug programme primarily concerns people who are drug addicts and their families.
They desperately need help.
I therefore feel that it is very important to undertake an honest analysis of the results of the programme and to draw the necessary conclusions.
The aims of this drug control programme are first and foremost to reduce the supply and demand.
Neither of these aims has been achieved.
Irrespective of the age group, country and drug concerned, drug taking is increasing or stagnating despite the harsh penalties and much greater number of prosecutions at national and increasingly at European level.
The same applies to the reduction in the supply of drugs.
For a long time only 10% of the drug trade has been caught by the police.
These shattering results are hushed up.
Instead, the drug programme before us just contains a copy of the previous programme with cosmetic changes.
Fortunately the Commission is undertaking an evaluation. However, an external assessment would clearly be better on this sensitive subject.
In any case, the appropriate action will have to be taken.
Despite the lack of success of the programme, a large part of the financial resources in the context of the drug programme goes into combating drugs.
For anything that is aimed at minimising the damage, there is a very small amount left over.
The question remains, however, why this programme is not clearly aiming to achieve the hidden goals.
We cannot escape the conclusion that the very fact of this programme' s existence is all that matters, and that in fact it serves different aims to those that have been stated.
What does this mean?
The drug programme is used to increase the legitimacy of the EU.
Drug programmes therefore have a purely instrumental character. And because that is at the expense of the addicts, we urgently need to think again.
There is no ideal solution in drug policy, we all agree on that.
But action must be taken.
The urgent aim must be to minimise the damage and that must be firmly established in the drug programme.
What that means in practice I shall show in four demands with which I shall now conclude.
Firstly, supply should be reduced to the minimum.
Secondly, methadone programmes should be expanded in the EU and the tried and tested controlled practice of the handing in of heroin should be introduced.
Thirdly, drugs users should be able to test drugs for their content and mixture.
Only in this way can further damage be prevented; we therefore need EU-wide drug checking.
Fourthly, city cooperation should be promoted, taken from the idea of the European Cities Drug Policy as a prime example of a project that recognises - legal and illegal - drugs as belonging to society and lends support to people dealing responsibly with these drugs.
We urgently need such a drug programme.
Mr President, without alcohol, tobacco and drugs, we would live a healthier life and cause each other less nuisance. But a world without unhealthy stimulants is an unattainable utopia.
Two groups of people are attracted to these: adults who, because of the free market, are at the mercy of social insecurity and tension and young people who want to explore all that is risky and forbidden.
Strict centralised European rules banning the use of drugs and regulating prosecution do not solve this problem.
Small-scale projects for the support of addicts, including training, housing, employment and income and also the provision of information regarding the effects of drug abuse are much more important.
I am somewhat alarmed at President Prodi' s recent announcement that small-scale, customised solutions will be prohibited in future.
In the Netherlands, the use of soft drugs has been permitted for the past twenty years.
This safeguards the users against sliding into crime and hard-drug addiction and offers the best chance of returning to a life without drugs.
This important public-health measure has since been adopted in many towns and regions in other European states.
It would be bad management to ban this policy, which can be held up as an example, in the name of European unification.
As far as I am concerned, Mr Prodi' s statement is actually an important reason why I would reject this proposal out of hand, despite all the balanced views contained in it.
Mr President, Commissioner, I must confess that I am no fundamentalist where this matter is concerned and I respect those who hold different opinions.
I particularly respect the opinion that has just been expressed by Mr Watson, whom I hold in great esteem.
But I do not believe that in the name of efficiency, we can lay aside principles, and I shall start with such just such a matter of principle: we believe that drugs are an evil that must be fought.
They are a vice that weakens the will, which ensnares the individual in a dependency which enslaves and depersonalises him or her, which destroys social bonds and relationships, which creates delinquency and makes society less safe, and which sustains world-wide criminal networks that defy States' power and law.
We think that it is obvious that we have to wage an uncompromising war against drugs.
This message is clearly made in Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou' s report and deserves our applause.
Indeed, this is a problem of this day and age and is extremely worrying. We know that drugs affect all countries and all social classes, and we also know that Europe' s enlargement towards the East dramatically shows the urgent need for efficient measures now that monitoring, which is already difficult, is going to become even more difficult.
We know that this is a growing problem. According to the report by the European Monitoring Centre, cannabis is still the most widely consumed drug throughout the European Union, although it is heroin that causes the most problems in terms of requests for treatment, drug-related deaths, HIV infection and social exclusion.
The same report, furthermore, shows an increase in the consumption in Europe of new synthetic drugs such as ecstasy, as well as an increase in the consumption of more traditional drugs such as LSD and amphetamines.
And all of this becomes more frightening if we consider that, at the moment, drug-related crime and the scale of drug trafficking represent around 8% of world trade.
We agree that this problem must be tackled from three angles: by reducing demand, by controlling drug trafficking and by combating drug addiction.
We agree that public awareness campaigns must be implemented and, at the same time, that we must strengthen prevention networks.
In the area of treatment, we must give support to high-quality programmes aimed at the whole community, using educational methods, including those targeting the prison population, together with initiatives designed to promote the reduction of risk, one example of which is the needle exchange programme.
With regard to reducing the availability of drugs, we must continue and increase our support to producing countries, so that they include in their priorities the reduction of demand and programmes for destroying crops, the destruction of laboratories and the prevention of trafficking.
For this reason, the political will required by this report must become reality.
If we limit ourselves to fine words, the conclusion will have to be that there has not been the political will.
This can be measured by the efficiency of the actions and the public resources placed in the service of this fight.
The report highlights the fact, and rightly so, that the budgetary resources are inadequate.
This Parliament does not have the right to ask the Member States for greater commitment and greater investment in the fight against drugs if it does not lead by example on an issue for which it has responsibility.
The main European instrument in this struggle is the European Monitoring Centre in Lisbon.
We expect a great deal from its work, in terms of a better understanding of the phenomenon, in terms of the existence of data and comparable information, and, above all, in terms of monitoring, identifying and proposals to ban dangerous substances placed on the market.
This is why we proposed amendments to this report. They were, in essence, accepted and seek to strengthen the role of the Monitoring Centre and to provide it with the necessary financial means for its work.
The other thing that our citizens are asking from us here is clarity.
Giving fine speeches is not enough.
We must take decisions and release resources which correspond to the commitment that we claim to have in this vital fight against organised crime for the sake of human dignity.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission communication on the Union' s action plan to combat drugs is an important and positive communication.
This plan covers all aspects of the problem and opens new prospects for a more mainstream, efficient approach.
However, and this goes without saying, more resources are needed.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Giannakou on her highly substantive report, especially the emphasis on international collaboration and the introduction of a systematic, yearly inter-pillar Council meeting to improve the monitoring and evaluation of action intended mainly to reduce the supply of drugs.
In the light of the international agreement concluded by the Special Session of the United Nations Organisation in June 1998 for a balanced approach to the problem which aims to reduce both supply and demand, I would like to highlight the potential offered by Article 152 of the Treaty.
This article allows the Union to complement national policies with action directed towards improving public health, preventing illness and reducing drugs-related damage to health.
The European Union action plan for the period from 2000 to 2004 must therefore include, over and above what is mentioned in the report, practices and programmes directed towards breaking the habit and restricting damage to the health of drug users.
Similarly, we need to focus our attention on and give priority funding to programmes to evaluate practices aimed at prevention, treatment and reintegration and in connection with the consequences to society and public health, so that Member States and applicant countries can use the conclusions as a guide when deciding their national policy.
Finally, I would like to point out that the European monitoring centre in Lisbon is carrying out important work and I trust that the information and data collected by it will prove how efficient European and international collaboration has been in this difficult fight.
Mr President, I am speaking in place of my colleague, Mr Hernández Mollar and, on his behalf, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou on the excellent work which she has done.
It is clear that the drug problem, not only on a European level but also on a world level, requires the special attention of politicians, institutions and the whole of civil society.
On 26 October, in this Parliament, the President of Colombia, a country which unfortunately has strong links with the drug problem, told us: "Drug trafficking has been the great creator of violence and has led to assassinations of the highest possible human cost to our country" .
And we are not talking here about an issue which only affects the Member States nor the European Union, but an issue which directly affects human beings in any country of the world.
Our first concern in this Parliament should be to point out that the responsibility is collective, that it requires collaboration, cooperation and coordination between the judicial and penal authorities and between the different continents, whether they be the European Union, Latin America, South East Asia or African countries.
The second concern is that the European Union must play a greater role in the field of reducing the demand for drugs.
To this end, the European Parliament, in this resolution, has highlighted and strengthened the role which the European Observatory on Drugs and Drug Addiction must play by giving it greater means and resources to fulfil its objective efficiently.
I would like particularly to stress the importance of the fight against traffickers who use and exploit illegal immigrants, especially on the Southern border of Europe, in Andalucia, Ceuta and Melilla, which have become a channel for drug trafficking.
I would like to dedicate the third consideration to the group which is most affected by this social scourge; our young people.
A recent survey carried out in my country indicated that the second greatest social problem in the eyes of our young people was, after unemployment, the drug problem.
As the resolution says, drugs give rise to family problems, work problems and road accidents.
If we add to this the considerable increase which has been observed in the consumption of alcohol by young people, which in many cases goes hand in hand with drug-taking, especially synthetic drugs, we can see the need to adopt urgent measures which will reverse this trend.
Action in the field of education and families, economic cooperation with associations and NGOs, especially in the field of leisure and sport, will complement the actions which must banish this "pressure valve" from the lives of our young people which sometimes means that they are destroyed by something which starts out as a means of escape.
But we cannot solve these problems by talk alone.
Resources are required.
Both the Member States and the European Union itself must prioritise, in their budgets, the economic means which will allow the implementation of the measures proposed, including prevention, suppression and rehabilitation.
And unfortunately this is still not the case.
Mr President, congratulations to my colleague on her report.
In my part of Europe 3 million people are on illegal drugs, that includes 28% of 16-29 year-olds and 14% of 14-15 year-olds.
12,000 new, notified addict cases come each year; we have 70,000 drug offenders a year and we lose 1,200 people through drug-related deaths per year.
This is a battle which we may not be winning now, but which we must not lose.
We need a multi-pronged policy, we need to act together to stop the growers and the traders and the pushers, but we also need policies on education and health and we need to encourage research.
If we simply cut the supply and not the demand, then we will end up with a higher price for the drugs on the street and with more crime being committed to pay for people's habits.
Many of the amendments to this report before us are therefore right.
We need to educate young people.
We need role models from music and fashion and film to get the message across to young people: not just by saying "no", that does not work, but by telling them the truth.
The truth is that drugs can bring pleasure but also the truth is that they can damage health.
Damage in the form of cancer and heart disease, in memory and concentration loss, testicular problems and so on, and young people need to understand that, too.
Drug-taking is wrong, but we need to help those who are willing to accept help.
I shall never forget, as a minister responsible for fighting drugs, going and meeting a young man who had lost his health and his friends and his relationships, his family, his jobs, his prospects and his self-respect.
He was being helped to help himself come out of that deep black hole of addiction.
I stupidly asked him "Do you feel you are beating it yet?" and he said to me "I have a lifetime struggle ahead of me - if I ever think that I have beaten it, then I am lost".
He deserves our support.
He needs the research to make sure that we have effective treatments and we need to give him that help and that confidence. But how much better if we could destroy this evil by persuading future generations of young people that it is simply not for them; it is simply not worth taking the risk.
Mr President, in my intervention I will attempt to summarise the opinions of my Italian colleagues, Mr Costa and Mr Nisticò, too, who were previously down to speak, but are unable to be here due to the postponement of this debate.
As the Italian delegation, too, we wish to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, on her excellent work.
As many Members have reminded us, we are dealing with the difficulty of finding a balance, which, nevertheless, has been achieved.
The difficulty stems from the different experiences and policies of the Member States.
At the same time, we must also initiate different types of relations between the Union as a whole and the activities of the individual states, and between the principle of subsidiarity and the need - which has also, rightly, been expressed - for the Union to equip itself with a common policy on this phenomenon which is a real concern for our present, but also for our future.
From the point of view of values, I am convinced of this and I totally agree with the ideas expressed by Mr Coelho, and therefore I will not repeat them.
Frankly, I am uneasy listening to some positions that send this message to young people: get used to living with ecstasy, get used to living with valium, i.e. get used to a life full of drugs.
I refuse to accept that politics should give way upon this issue.
I said that the report is excellent, not just because it rightly puts the two elements of the matter back into the spotlight - a combined action to reduce demand and to reduce supply - but also, may I say, because of the frankness with which Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou criticises what is still insufficient in the Commission proposal, both from a financial and economic point of view - we cannot state the importance of a battle and then not follow through in financial terms - and from the point of view, shall we say, of the political half-heartedness regarding the initiatives that the States still have not made.
Therefore, this excellent idea to convene an "inter-pillar" Council is one we should support.
In conclusion, I would just like to emphasise two points that, in our experience as Italians, are particularly important and significant: firstly, the importance of supporting basic scientific research as well so that we gain a greater understanding of the phenomenon, and, if possible, receive early warning of what the alleged drugs of the future will be, especially finding out the devastating effects of synthetic drugs; secondly, the importance of involving in these actions those principally concerned, those who are in the front line every day, who help drug addicts, that is, the experiences of treatment centres.
I think that these should be supported and encouraged.
Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou willingly accepted this request from the Italian delegation.
I think that, in future, when we address this subject again, it will be useful to come back to the point of who is managing and helping drug addicts today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Counterfeit travel documents
The next item is the report (A5-0050/1999) by Mr Newton Dunn on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany with a view to adopting a Council Decision on the improved exchange of information to combat counterfeit travel documents (8457/1999 - C5-0011/1999 - 1999/0804(SNS)).
.
This is a very uncontentious, uncontroversial report except for just one single point, which involves everybody who is listening.
The proposal is to develop a computerised image archiving system to help detect forged travel documents.
I imagine that we all agree that is worth doing.
So what is the single point of controversy?
It is whether this decision is going to be made behind closed doors in Brussels by officials and ministers, or whether there will be parliamentary scrutiny.
Fifteen national parliaments cannot do so, because it is a European proposal and this task will fall to us if to anybody.
Now the history of this proposal is that in January of this year, the Commission put forward the same proposal and said its purpose was to detect documents brought in by illegal immigrants.
The proposal lapsed when the Amsterdam Treaty came into effect in May.
It has now been retabled by the German Government, as a national government is entitled to do, under the Amsterdam Treaty.
However, the problem is that the German Government says its purpose is to deal with I quote 'crime' and leaves out the word immigration.
Why?
Because under the Amsterdam Treaty, immigration questions are transferred from the third pillar to the first pillar and become the responsibility, for the first time, of Parliament.
However, criminal matters remain in the third pillar and we have no area of scrutiny, no responsibility at all.
Therefore, the German Government in my submission is seeking to avoid parliamentary scrutiny of its proposal.
The committee did not like that.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms invited the Finnish Presidency and the German Government to come and answer our questions about the proposal.
The Finnish Presidency replied in a letter to the committee that it would not come, it would not answer our questions.
However, it did say that we could ask put questions in plenary.
Well, here we are in the plenary - where is the Council of Ministers?
Everybody can see that the seats are empty except for one charming lady in grey who is an official and is not allowed to speak.
But I hope she will take away this message.
The fact that the German Government has sought to avoid parliamentary scrutiny altogether by keeping this under the third pillar and the fact that the Finnish Presidency has not even turned up to answer our questions either in committee or in plenary is, I am sorry to say, a great stain on the reputation of the Finns, who previously had a wonderful reputation for openness and democracy.
I am also very sorry that they are not here to answer my accusation.
To conclude, the committee has voted to change the legal base so that this matter comes back under the first pillar, because this proposal is primarily about detecting forged documents carried by illegal immigrants.
I am asking everyone who is here to vote tomorrow morning to support the committee, to establish parliamentary control over this new area of policy, which is our remit under the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur.
In his request to speak he referred to an important field, that is the institutional field and everything concerned with it.
What I should like to do is to refer to the opportunities that this system offers us.
The paper deals with combating the counterfeiting of travel documents.
It is a system for registration and comparison and thus an instrument that also helps to combat illegal entry and illegal immigration or the committing of criminal acts under a false identity.
That means that in order to be able to combat this phenomenon, which is partly a phenomenon of organised crime, we need new and very effective instruments.
One instrument is the system discussed here to combat the counterfeiting of travel documents.
After all, it should also help us to combat the crime of smuggling, which is on the increase.
If the figures are correct, then we have in the meantime learned that almost the same criminal earnings are obtained from smuggling as from drug crime and with considerably less risk than with drug-related crime.
I have been given access to figures that show that of the 400,000 to 500,000 illegal immigrants who come to the European Union every year, at least 200,000 are brought into the European Union by smugglers.
These counterfeit documents are very often used in smuggling cases.
In other areas too, where there is asylum abuse, there is counterfeiting of documents that are passed on from one person to another.
Unfortunately this has become part of a system.
In this regard, the system that Mr Newton Dunn described should be welcomed and supported.
I should, however, like to mention one point with which we are not happy.
That is the fact that in parallel we have developed the FADO system that allows us to compare original documents and counterfeit documents pictorially.
In reality, we therefore have two systems that should be amalgamated in one system.
Because rather than coming across counterfeit documents it is of course better if we have previously compared original and counterfeit documents via the FADO system.
That means that the aim should not be to run two parallel systems side by side, but to unite both of them in one system in the interests of efficiency.
Overall this action to combat counterfeit documents by comparing information that is not person-related is to be welcomed.
But we should try to be more efficient so that two systems do not run in parallel but are associated with each other so that something is achieved: so that with the Schengen information system and the EURODAC information system together we can contribute to a safer Europe.
Mr President, allow me to welcome the initiative by Germany to improve the exchange of information on counterfeit documents.
This exchange of information is of great importance for the protection and security of people in Europe.
Europe needs a legal area in which its citizens feel at home and protected.
An essential contribution to this is the cross-border regulations and protection systems that make life difficult for criminals.
The German initiative endeavours to achieve such a system.
By exchanging information on counterfeit documents the counterfeiting itself is contained.
That is an essential contribution to combating smuggling and other crimes and - I think this is very important - all other kinds of crime.
So it is quite sensibly in the proposal for a Council Decision.
The rapporteur wants to amend paragraph 3 of the preamble and limit the crimes to the offence of illegal immigration.
He implies that illegal immigration is the greatest crime that we have to combat.
My dear colleague, where do you actually live?
Have you never heard anything about drug dealers and the couriers of the money launderers with suitcases full of bank notes?
Do I really have to make you a list of travellers' crimes?
Amendment 6 is a disgrace!
It mocks our citizens who expect protection and security from the European Union.
We must vote by a large majority against this amendment.
We cannot allow ourselves the intellectual freedom to be afraid of a few poor creatures who sneak in with forged documents and at the same time guarantee serious criminals the freedom to travel.
The Legal Committee that has dealt with this matter was also unanimous and, I repeat, unanimous, in this opinion with all the other Groups after an in-depth examination and, as I said just now, I want this measure to apply to all crime.
That is the reason why my Group will vote against all these amendments in the vote tomorrow morning.
Mr President, I too would like to support the substance of the German Council initiative to improve on the exchange of information on counterfeit travel documents and to strengthen the security of the European Union's borders both for Member States such as my own, the United Kingdom, which are outside of Schengen as well as those that are at the EU perimeter.
Recently my country, the United Kingdom, has been subject to an enormous rise in the inward flow of peoples and in my previous job as a Central London hospital doctor I witnessed a significant degree of illegal immigration and fraudulent abuse of our generous asylum policy.
We in the UK are currently witnessing something of the order of 7,000 new applicants for asylum every month and over 80% of these eventually turn out after investigation to be bogus.
This represents some 100,000 people per year including their dependants coming into my country.
I personally have come across a Nigerian asylum seeker being granted asylum on the strength of a false Liberian passport, an Albanian family who passed themselves off as Kosovans, another Nigerian who had loaned his British passport to his cousin who was able to enter the United Kingdom under the identity of his cousin and then commit a crime, and an Algerian who was living under the identity of a French citizen and who had bought his ID card on the Parisian black market.
These are just some of the many abuses of which I have personal experience and we know that for the immigration authorities these examples are a daily occurrence.
How can we expect our own immigration and police authorities to be able to crack down on the systematic abuse of our system?
We have a duty to remember that this constant flow of illegal immigration is posing an enormous burden, in particular in inner cities, on our national health service, social services and social security system as well as putting huge pressure on our limited housing stock.
Unfortunately, there is evidence that large numbers of asylum-seekers have been waved through Continental Europe with a suggestion that they head towards our Channel ports in the knowledge that we have a permissive policy with instant rights to housing and social security benefits.
Although the British Conservative Party is formally opposed in principle to commissioning under Article 63 of the Treaty of Amsterdam to the first pillar of policies on visas, immigration and asylum - and I therefore have to disagree with our rapporteur on this issue - nevertheless we welcome intergovernmental cooperation under the third pillar through Council joint action on the exchange of such information, including that relating to forged travel documents in order to crack-down on crime, particularly international crime which respects no national boundaries.
There is evidence that organised crime has spotted a soft and lucrative target in the illegal traffic of human beings who are often prepared to spend their life savings to gain entry to wealthy western countries in the hope of making a new life for themselves.
This initiative is, therefore, in my view, a step in the right direction with the use of modern computer image digitalising technology to aid law enforcement agencies and interior ministries to cooperate throughout the Union.
It is a good example in my view of the sort of European Union venture that my party in the United Kingdom can support so long as it is done on a flexible, intergovernmental basis.
Mr President, the comments by the previous speaker, Mr Tannock, should show Mr Newton Dunn why Mrs Gebhardt rejects his amendment.
The German government has taken an initiative to restrict and gain better control of the counterfeiting of travel documents - and that is in the context of the freedom of movement in the European Union.
Mr Newton Dunn has now, on the pretext that the Parliament could not have such a strong influence under the third pillar as with his legal base, chosen the approach to amend the legal base and in doing so he has limited the target group taken into consideration to those who are affected under the first pillar within the meaning of the security policy of the European Union.
That then led to a Member such as Mr Tannock giving an inflammatory speech about immigration!
That goes together very well if you have the philosophy of a British Tory, which amounts to an anti-European view!
However, this only marginally concerns Germany' s initiative to strengthen the security structures in Europe.
But it does provide pretexts for the politicians who in the meantime colour every debate on security in Europe with the subject of illegal immigration.
I should just like to say something here to our colleague from London: having heard your speech, I must ask you a question in return.
Is Europe now really an immigration continent or not?
If you answer in the affirmative with your lively description that Europe is an immigration continent should we not finally take action and create legal structures on immigration?
You would be the first to say 'no' , I am quite sure of that!
We are not a continent of immigration and we don' t need any immigration rules!
But what does the whole debate show us?
Mr Newton Dunn has perhaps chosen a sensible approach from the viewpoint of the European Parliament in order to increase our influence.
We have already seen the political effects that that has.
Remaining under the third pillar does integrate more groups of people, as Mrs Gebhardt has just said, that is to say, all criminals who forge travel documents.
But we have not integrated the Parliament as strongly as with the Newton Dunn legal base.
Overall, that shows that neither the third pillar nor the marginal transfer of responsibilities to another pillar are sufficient to create efficient security structures in Europe.
Commissioner, you must together with us make that clear to the Council.
You did so in Tampere, you did it before, and you must do it again.
The debate here shows that not all of our efforts bear fruit, because the government cooperation is not sufficient to convert the needs resulting from the internal market structure and the associated speed of integration into new legislation on security structures in Europe and it does not operate in accordance with Amsterdam.
We must draw the necessary conclusions from this, otherwise it will not work in practice.
Because we are arguing here about the legal bases, we are conducting some stupid debates about illegal immigration - that is something for the Tory Party conference, but ineffective for Europe - and we are completely neglecting what we should do, that is, create effective legislation to restrict the counterfeiting of documents, both by those who illegally provide access to Europe and those who, as Mrs Gebhardt rightly said, travel thorough Europe with a suitcase full of heroin but with counterfeit documents too.
Mr Newton Dunn, because we are of the view that in weighing up your proposal, that is a very worthy one, and the intention that the German Council Presidency had in its time, we must decide in favour of the greater target area, we shall reject your amendment, not only because of the legal base, but as a consequence of all the others, which does not alter the fact that you have undertaken a careful piece of work.
You have indeed done that, but on this subject we differ greatly in our political views!
Mr President, I have to give the House some good news, and I am sure you will welcome it as such.
Yesterday' s newspapers, published today in press reviews across Italy, said: "Long-life gene discovered: life could be increased by a third" , or by 35% to be precise.
Therefore, I think that, if at the moment I am hoping to reach 90, I will actually reach 130.
You will say, what does this have to do with counterfeit travel documents?
I will tell you straight away.
You know that I am the representative of the Pensioners' Party, elected to Parliament from that list.
The pensioners are always asking me what they are cooking up in the pot in Brussels.
They are aware of the fact that in Brussels - but above all in the fifteen Member States of the Union - they take these pensioners and they throw as many of them as possible into boiling water.
This is what has been happening for some time, and, with this new piece of news, I think that the pot will be heated even more so that even more pensioners can be boiled, if possible all together.
In addition to the serious harm that they know they have to suffer, there is also the fact that, unfortunately, being elderly, they more than other people are more likely to be the targets of the criminal acts which, throughout the European Community, are sadly being perpetrated by many people who illegally enter the Union and then commit them once they are in.
I would therefore like to say to my friends and fellow Members, Mr Gebhardt and Mr Schulz, that, firstly, in the amendments tabled by Mr Newton Dunn, the need to combat crime and the trade in human beings is not avoided but confirmed.
I would also like to say that if these criminals do not enter illegally, then they will not commit crimes either; if, on the other hand, they are decent people and have their travel documents in order, then we are quite happy for them to enter.
It is precisely for this reason that we are saying that what this measure is doing is positive - even if it reminds us of Arsène Lupin, the gentleman thief - but it would be much better to have a European electronic identity card which is the same in all the States.
Above all, it would be much better for supervision at European borders to be increased, on the borders of Spain, Greece and Italy as well as Eastern Europe...
It is pointless to invest money, effort and hard work for other reasons.
We must prevent large numbers of people illegally entering the European Union who then go on to commit crimes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Losses under loans for projects outside the Community
The next item is the report (A5-0051/1999) by Mrs Rühle on behalf of the Committee on Budgets on the Proposal for a Council Decision granting a Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans for projects outside the Community (Central and Eastern Europe and Western Balkans, Mediterranean countries, Latin America and Asia and the Republic of South Africa) (COM(1999)142 - C5-0039/1999 - 1999/0080(CNS).
I wish to thank you all for waiting so long as we have been relatively busy today and for a long time we did not know when the report would come up.
However, today and tomorrow I should like to be able to vote on the procedures of guarantees by the Community for the European Investment Bank, the EIB for short, because if possible, we want to decide before the Council and because we also want to make certain changes, which I shall refer to in detail.
The provision of these guarantees concerns the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the Mediterranean, Latin America, Asia and South Africa.
It relates to the period up to the year 2003 under my proposal, to be precise until 31 January 2003, then there will be a review half way through and we shall then deal with it again or extend it until 31 January 2007.
It involves a sum of EUR 9 475 million and the provision of guarantees amounting to a maximum of 60%.
There are few inconsistencies in this regard. The inconsistencies are to be found in other areas.
The main problem area with which my report deals, which became clearer as I worked on the report, is that the European Investment Bank, as far as modern business management, transparency and public work are concerned, is trailing rather far behind.
Some of the people I have spoken to have explained that the European Investment Bank is trailing some twenty years behind the World Bank as far as modern business management is concerned.
I therefore believe it is important that we deal with this subject more intensively.
The European Investment Bank is the largest public bank in Europe, its general owners are the Member States and it works primarily with low-interest loans.
Owing to the fact that its shareholders do not expect high interest rates and the thus possible low gearing rate, that is the ratio of the lending volume to equity capital, of 2.5 - market rates are usually over 10 - the Bank enjoys considerable confidence on the capital markets.
This high level of confidence on the capital markets enables it to take up loans under favourable conditions and to on-lend at accordingly favourable rates.
Furthermore, the Bank enjoys tax exemption and not least, guarantees from the EU budget for political risks too.
Despite this direct and indirect assistance to the Bank from the European Union, the EIB is keen to appear to the public as a quite ordinary bank and in the past that was how it justified its relative inaccessibility for cooperation and monitoring to the public compared to other public institutions like the World Bank.
In our view, that should and must now change as a matter of urgency.
My report therefore also deals first and foremost with the subjects of accountability and transparency, that is, modern business practice.
Over the last few years there has been a lot of criticism of the internal administration and business management of the EIB.
Nevertheless, for a long time the Bank refused to allow the Court of Auditors or OLAF to inspect its books, invoking its special nature as a bank.
The particular "constipation" of the EIB in matters of public monitoring and transparency even led the ECOFIN Council on 8 August 1999 to state the following, and I quote: "In view of the important financial task assigned to the European Investment Bank by the Treaty and a series of Community regulations, it must take an exemplary attitude to fraud control and allow OLAF, where necessary, to undertake inspections.
The Council does not doubt that the governing body of the Bank will shortly submit a proposal to their board of governors for a decision in accordance with the inter-institutional agreement."
We are now seeing the first signs that the Bank will open its books.
However, in my view they are not yet adequate and there is still mistrust.
This mistrust is increased further by its dealings to date with Mr Blak, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgetary Control, who has been waiting for a long time to answers to his questions.
I should like once again to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its preparatory work in this regard, which has allowed me in the short time available to draw up this report, and I should especially like to thank Mr Blak and Mrs Theato.
In the future we shall also have to watch the development of the EIB with regard to more transparency and for all sceptics, it is also a matter of economic efficiency.
A business that cuts itself off will be taking its decisions on a very narrow basis.
Dialogue with society in general, as the World Bank, among others, has been practising in the meantime, also provides information for investment decisions.
Here, also, the Bank has been criticised in the past, both regarding its investments in the health sector in my own country, that particularly consolidate antiquated structures and in the transport and environment sectors in Eastern Europe.
It cannot and may not suffice in the future for the Bank to restrict itself to the isolated inspection of individual projects - such as, for example a section of motorway -, it must also inspect the projects in context - for example within a transport development plan in a particular country, in order to be able to identify duplication and to develop an acceptable and financially sustainable alternative.
For this reason the Bank should undertake a public relations offensive in the regions that have received assistance.
The European Parliament should therefore in the next few years direct its attention to the development of the EIB.
The bases are set out in my report and I hope that they will be adopted tomorrow.
Thank you very much! I have overrun a little, but I wanted you to understand what this report is all about because the report is all Greek to most people!
I note, Mrs Rühle, that it is very difficult to stop you.
You have overrun your allotted speaking time by 25%.
That' s a huge amount!
Mr President, Mrs Rühle has produced an excellent report on this subject.
I am the newly appointed rapporteur on the EIB, the European Central Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
I agree with the amendments proposed by Mrs Rühle as they express clearly real concerns about the EIB's transparency, efficacy, accountability and conformity with the Community's objectives and policies.
I will address briefly each of these concerns.
Firstly, there is widespread concern about the EIB's transparency.
My predecessor from the Socialist Group, Mr Freddy Blak, Mrs Rühle, the author of the report, many Members of Parliament and the Court of Auditors have all expressed their opinion about the lack of transparency in the operations of the EIB.
Even the World Bank and the East European NGO called Bankwatch have publicly stated this view.
Secondly, let me turn to efficacy.
Mrs Rühle states the need to evaluate the effectiveness of EIB operations.
I, as the new rapporteur for the Bank, requested Sir Brian Unwin, the President of the EIB, for an initial meeting to set out a framework to assess the efficiency of the Bank.
I am sorry to report to this House that Sir Brian has not even bothered to ring me or arrange to meet despite numerous telephone reminders.
Such disregard for this new European Parliament will erode, yet again, public respect and confidence in the European Union.
Thirdly, what about public accountability?
In May 1999, my predecessor, Mr Blak, Vice-President of CoCobu, asked 26 specific questions about alleged fraud, mismanagement, corruption and cover-up - I mean cover-up - in the Bank's activities, including in treasury operations, over the period 1993-1998.
The questions are specific, detailed and relevant.
They require a written response from the Bank.
I have asked Sir Brian for such a response but, once again, he has chosen to ignore my request.
I have been told by Mr Martí, one of his vice-presidents, that the EIB is owned by the Member States and, as such, according to the Treaty, it is not an EU institution obliged to respond to the European Parliament, the Court of Auditors or OLAF.
Only matters relating to loans to non-EU countries where the Community gives loan guarantees can be discussed with Members of Parliament.
I ask this House, what are the Member States?
Are they not the governments of the people who live, work and pay taxes in the countries that we call Member States?
Are we not, as the only elected representatives of the people of these Member States, expected to safeguard the interests of the people who live in the Member States?
Does the Treaty specifically forbid the European Parliament from having access to information?
Certainly not.
Therefore, if the EIB is confident that it functions well and has nothing to hide, why is Sir Brian Unwin, its president, denying access to Parliament, the Court of Auditors and OLAF?
Clearly, the Treaty needs to be amended to specify such access in bold print.
I suggest that those involved in the IGC take note.
Clearly there is support for this as Ecofin, in its meeting on 8 October in Tampere, reinforced its previous criticisms of the EIB's management and performance by directing it to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors.
I have seen the decision taken by the EIB concerning this directive and according to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the decision taken by the Bank it will not open its doors to OLAF.
It is about time this House told the Bank to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors.
Mr President, the succession of earthquakes that have wrought destruction on north-eastern Turkey have led us to consider it crucial to increase the sums allocated to that country, and therefore, we voted, on the first reading, in favour of a revision of the financial perspectives which include emergency support for Turkey on a par with the priority that we gave to the reconstruction of East Timor.
In addition to this budgetary boost, it is also essential to strengthen support for Turkey by means of credit on favourable terms, and we therefore support the rate of risk cover by the Community budget.
At the same time, it was with a certain amount of pleasure that we received the news, recently, that the European Investment Bank has finally accepted the scrutiny of its management by Community institutions.
In any event, we think that it is essential for the forthcoming revision of the Treaty to establish the European Investment Bank as an institution under the full control of the Community, under the supervision of the Court of Auditors and the European Parliament, so that it does not merely answer to a general assembly of Member States, as it seeks to do at the moment.
As soon as all the Bank' s activity is supported by a considerable Community budget effort, which guarantees the risks linked to banking activity, the scrutiny of its accounts must be developed with the utmost rigour and care.
When both Parliament and public opinion were surprised at information published in the press, according to which an institution that we thought was involved entirely in structural investments had lost very considerable sums in short-term speculative operations, it became clear that there was a need to scrutinise the EIB' s investment policy thoroughly.
The multiplying effect of a banking guarantee means that investments resulting from EIB credits are of crucial importance in the context of policies subsidised by the Community budget.
It would not, therefore, be reasonable, through this guarantee, to support different policies from those decided on by the European Union.
This is not a question of interfering in commercial lending policy, a matter which is the sole competence of the EIB' s management, but merely of guaranteeing respect for democratic decisions and for stringent, transparent rules.
The EIB is the trustee of a valuable Community inheritance, both from the point of view of the actions that it has helped to implement and from the point of view of the amounts of money that it has accumulated.
We are sure that the EIB will continue to play this role in the future.
Mr President, this report by Mrs Rühle is excellent, as it underlines the principles which the European Parliament has held as important when we have tried to improve our administration.
The reports by Mrs Rühle and Mr Seppänen both concern the same issue: guarantees against loans granted to the European Investment Bank.
In itself, the European Investment Bank is an excellent instrument for financing specific projects.
As the EIB has a high degree of creditworthiness, it can acquire cheap capital from the markets and target it at those areas the EU considers necessary.
In this way the direct need for financial aid diminishes.
There is a budget guarantee for those loans for which the EIB is responsible on behalf of the EU, which amounts to 70%.
Now the matter being raised is the reduction of this figure.
The Commission is proposing 60%, but the Council has decided on a provisional rate of 65%.
For that reason, Parliament must first determine its position on what the correct rate should be.
In determining the percentage figure our starting point is that the EU should bear the principal political risk relating to the financing of projects.
This means that if the political situation in a country in which a project is to be carried out continues as predicted, there is only a financial risk attached to lending. That is normally the responsibility of the party granting the loan.
In fact, the EU guarantee has also borne part of the financial risk, as these two different factors cannot be clearly distinguished from one another.
The percentage rate obviously has a bearing on how many loans can be guaranteed by a sum that is contained in the financial perspectives and which is at present EUR 200 million.
In practice, changing the rate may not have an effect except as a means of regulating the overall amount of loans, as the guarantees do not often have to be paid.
Mr President, with these remarks I would like to express my support for the reports by Mrs Rühle and Mr Seppänen.
Mr President, the European Investment Bank' s activities are becoming ever more important, especially now that Eastern and Western Europe are to draw closer to each other.
Bringing new countries from Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean area into the EU, like developing cooperation with other neighbouring countries, is not just a question of reaching good agreements.
It is at least as much a question of in actual fact developing these countries' societies and economies so that they can manage the new environment they are to be integrated into.
It is therefore a serious matter that it is now so unclear how much confidence can be placed in the Bank.
The content and consequences of the EIB' s programmes must be developed in such a way that loans vigorously support the European Union' s political objectives.
The rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets particularly point out that the Bank' s projects must support important objectives, including the European Parliament' s decisions concerning, for example, the fight against poverty, the defence of democracy and human rights and the protection of the environment.
Clearly, the European Union must continue to back the EIB and guarantee its loans, especially against political risks.
We take a favourable view of the desire that now exists to carry out assessments in such a way that differentiation takes place on the basis of how risks and financing opportunities appear in different parts of the world.
It is also important, however, not only to make improvements to the programmes themselves. Instead, there must also be improved public scrutiny of the Bank' s activities.
For example, it is important that the Bank should work with clear, assessable objectives so that we might in actual fact ensure that the resources are used efficiently.
This is also important in order for us to be able to learn from the results of the Bank' s activities and use our analyses to develop activities in the future.
Many of my colleagues have spoken of the importance of openness.
I shall just touch briefly upon this issue.
All EU institutions, like the EIB, must now subject themselves to more stringent monitoring and supervision.
That is why we are now demanding increased openness.
It ought to be obvious that both OLAF and the Court of Auditors should have access to all documents which are required for the purposes of good supervision.
That is the significance of the important amendment No 5, and something which I understand that the Bank has now in fact begun to consider agreeing to.
Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I should like to thank Mrs Heide Rühle for the excellent teamwork.
It has been a real pleasure to work together on this matter.
The European Investment Bank is an important tool in connection with aid to developing countries but, in order to help, the Bank needs loan guarantees provided by the EU.
The guarantees are necessary if the Bank' s potential is to be used fully.
I should therefore like to recommend the report, but I also have just a couple of remarks about the Investment Bank.
Combating fraud, muddle and incompetence in the EU' s systems is incredibly important.
If we do not overcome the fraudulent use of taxpayers' money, the population of Europe is never going to regard us in a positive light.
It makes cooperation more difficult.
Combating fraud is therefore something which should be given the highest priority everywhere.
This also applies to the Investment Bank.
In the Committee on Budgetary Control, we have fought a hard struggle over six years to obtain an insight into the Bank' s affairs and, yesterday, we finally got an agreement in regard to supervision of the Bank by the fraud office, OLAF.
I think, however, that it is incredible that it should have been necessary to exert pressure on the Bank in connection with its guarantees from the EU before it became at all possible to talk with its officials.
It ought not to have been necessary for us to take steps of that kind.
I will put it like this: it would have been easier to enter Fort Knox in the United States than it was to enter the doors of the Investment Bank.
The fact that the Bank has now been opened up means that OLAF can ask for information from the Bank.
It also means that the Bank should turn to OLAF whenever it discovers fraud. Then, things will really have started to move.
Basically, the Investment Bank has now undertaken to cooperate to the maximum with OLAF in order to get to grips with fraud involving taxpayers' money.
The only way in which we can obtain a better relationship with the population of Europe is by being open and showing that we are using their money honestly and properly.
The Bank has therefore decided that OLAF must begin an investigation when it comes to the matter of EU resources.
This is in actual fact a tremendous victory for Parliament, and I therefore want to say that it has been a pleasure for me to lead this struggle. Now, my colleague can take over, and I am quite sure that he will be a very popular man throughout the Bank.
Mr President, I would like to make two comments, one concerning the main objective of the subject of today' s debate, the guarantee by Union budgets of the external loans of the EIB, and another on the issues which I know concern this Parliament especially, those of transparency and the efficient use of the Bank' s resources.
First point: In the ECOFIN of 8 November, a political agreement was reached on the Commission' s proposal of 23 April.
It is true that the Member States still have some reservations.
With the favourable opinion of the European Parliament we hope to approve this Council decision in the next meeting of the Council on the 29th of this month.
The issue is especially relevant, given its urgency, insofar as we do not have a lot of time to implement the new procedure, since the current system ends at the end of January and we need to reach a bilateral agreement between the Bank and the Commission.
Therefore I would like to thank you for the work on the budget, especially Mrs Rühle, for her invaluable cooperation on this specific issue of the forecast of the issues.
Having said this, I would also like to tell her that, with regard to the report, many issues have been accepted, while others we have not been able to accept for either technical or economic reasons.
Our positions are perfectly well known and I do not know if it is worth repeating them.
I would simply insist perhaps on the last proposal, which refers to amendment 11.
As we have already told you, we think that it is much better, on the subject of the definition of policies, to speak of a solution by means of a Commission declaration to the Council rather than a modification of the decision.
However the problem which has been of most concern in today' s debate is that of transparency and the efficient use of Community resources.
It is clearly not a new issue and many of you have worked on it for many years, and I would like to be a little less negative than some of you.
Less negative in the sense that the framework of EIB relations with OLAF and the Court of Auditors is beginning to become clearer.
It is true - and some of you have said so - that, with regard to relations with the Court of Auditors, there is a problem of primary legislation which will clearly have to be amended, if the European Investment Bank is receive the same treatment as the Community institutions.
I insist once again that this issue is well-known, but no less important for being so: the Member States are the Bank' s shareholders and the Member States must take some decisions which, logically, do not correspond to other Community institutions.
We are not talking about a greater or lesser degree of representation but rather simply a distribution of competences which at the time were defined in a particular way.
Secondly: Having said that, in what respect do I believe we have moved forward?
I believe that we have moved forward greatly in the sense that the European Investment Bank has accepted that OLAF has all the information and means necessary to analyse the loans subsidised with Community funds, which must undoubtedly be our main concern.
It is true that we are still debating what will happen to the Bank' s activities in the cases where it uses own resources.
And when we talk of own resources we are in fact talking about two different realities: loans with own resources and guarantees from the Union or loans without guarantees from the Union.
I would like this principle of openness which has developed in relations with the Bank to move forward and that finally we may arrive at a result which is satisfactory to the Parliament and the European Investment Bank, without forgetting, as I said before, that the EIB is a financial institution which can provide information with no restriction on any kind of issue.
It can provide information, with some restriction, to OLAF and, of course, with regard to the Court of Justice, the final position will have to be that which is decided in accordance with the amendment of the Treaties.
In any case, the debate has been enormously interesting and I hope that what I have heard today will not be an obstacle, however, so that we can move forward with the approval of the distribution of resources, the distribution of loans, as from next year and that Community procedures are not delayed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
EIB loans to Turkey
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0054/99) by Mr Seppänen on behalf of the Committee on Budgets on the Proposal for a Council Decision granting a Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans for projects for the reconstruction of the earthquake-stricken areas of Turkey (COM(1999) 498 - C5-0247/1999 - 1999/0212(CNS)).
Thank you, Mr Seppänen, for your presentation and your report.
I would like to make a few comments about your report.
Firstly - and here I would like to address Mr Korakas' concerns - we are talking of humanitarian aid, of a process which is different to any other Union aid programme, whether a financial protocol or any other type.
This humanitarian aid was initially granted as a result of the earthquakes which took place in August, but the Commission would also like to extend its scope to the most recent earthquakes which have happened in Turkey.
We believe that the quantity will not be altered significantly, but we do think that it would be difficult to differentiate between the damage caused by one earthquake or another in a programme of this type.
Having made these initial comments, I would like to deal with the two problems mentioned in the report.
The first problem is the risk of exceeding the type or total amount of the loans from the reserves and the loan guarantees.
According to our information, this is not the case.
We have carried out a thorough and detailed analysis, and, according to the information available, on the basis of the maximum use envisaged there is still a surplus in 1999 of Euro 33 million, of 8.7 in 2000, of 7 million -approximately- in 2001 and, although it is clear that in 2002 the situation will be completely different, there will also be surpluses in 2003.
This leads us to believe that there is little sense therefore in modifying the system of reserves at the moment, because this difficulty would only arise in the event that we use the maximum forecast.
Clearly you may ask me what would happen in the event that new situations such as this one may arise and we have to take further action.
For this reason the Commission always has the margin to confront this possibility of an increase in the reserve Fund, although we feel that it is not necessary to do so at the moment.
With regard to the possibility of the 60 or 65%, we could agree with your idea of accepting 60 rather than 65%, which seems to us to be a coherent idea.
This would require a modification of the regulations which are currently applicable, which in turn would lead to a delay in the decision-making process on humanitarian aid, one of the principal characteristics of which is urgency, so that we may quickly relieve the existing problems in Turkey.
Therefore I would hope that my explanations are satisfactory, that Parliament may reconsider its requests, that the acceptance of this decision may be dealt with as a matter of the greatest urgency with the guarantee that, if there are financial problems in the future, the Commission would bear in mind the need to go further with regard to the reserve Fund.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
I should like to thank all of you who have waited so long!
(The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.)
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Are there any comments?
Mr President, with reference to the Minutes for the sitting of Thursday 18 November, item 11 "Treaty reforms and the next IGC" .
Amendment No 19 is listed with the amendments adopted under item 11. It consists of an addition to paragraph 19 of the draft resolution.
Well, this addition has not been included in the version of the text adopted as printed in the "Texts adopted" section of the Minutes distributed this morning.
I should, therefore, like to ask you to amend the "Texts adopted" , in accordance with the votes which were taken in yesterday' s sitting.
We shall check the text in all the language versions and, if there is a mistake, it will of course be corrected.
It is not a mistake to do with the languages, since the addition is missing in all the language versions.
It will therefore be corrected, Mr Poos.
- (DE) Mr President, according to the Minutes, we concluded voting yesterday at 2.35 p.m. whereas according to my records it was 2.45 p.m.
Irrespective of this, however, I would like to say that we were subject to an inhumane three and a half hour voting procedure on account of some lazy individuals wanting to get away early and we therefore came under extreme pressure.
I request that this procedure no longer be enforced in future.
If someone leaves, that is nobody' s fault but their own or, to quote Lenin and Gorbachev, life will punish whoever leaves early.
That person does not have a majority and will hopefully also be punished by the electorate one day.
Yes, Mr Posselt, I take note of your comment, and I congratulate the brave people who are here this morning.
Mr President, on a point of order, or a point of concern almost, a number of Members on this side of the House have noticed that you may have lost your jacket and on a snowy day can we offer you one of ours just in case you get cold.
I shall check the Rules of Procedure to see if the colour and size of jacket are stipulated and I guarantee that I shall adhere to these conditions in future.
On the subject of yesterday' s Minutes, Mr President. Yesterday, before the vote on the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report, I made a protest because the amendments that I had submitted in French were not identical to the French version which was officially published.
It was not, therefore, a translation problem.
My amendments had actually been reworked by an anonymous reviser.
Well, I read in the Minutes that the President explained to Mr Berthu that two of his amendments had not been very well worded.
It sounds as if I worded my amendments badly.
Well I disagree, my amendments were very well worded, and some anonymous reviser has taken it upon himself to amend the text.
I must protest. It is a matter of principle.
The officials of the European Parliament have no call to be altering amendments submitted by a Member of Parliament.
I take good note of your comment, and the correction you wish will be made.
Are there any other comments?
(The Minutes were approved)
Vote
Mr President, this is an additional amendment which, in our opinion, specifies the role and the help that therapeutical communities can give more clearly.
I will read the Italian text out for the Members: "believes that rehabilitating drug addicts constitutes, in the same way as other areas, a fundamental aspect of the fight against drugs, in that action is targeted at demand; to this end, it supports and encourages the important social contribution as regards rehabilitating drug addicts on the part of the therapeutical communities, whose means should be increased" .
Does the Commission wish to make a comment?
Mr President, I shall pass on Mr Seppänen' s comments to my colleagues, and I assure you we will discuss the matter.
The amendments are therefore withdrawn, at the request of the rapporteur.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Giannakou-Koutsikou Report
Mr President, in my opinion it is vital to make the prevention of drug dependence a main priority in the EU' s internal and external action.
That must also be clearly evident from Union acts.
The rules will, however, be useless unless they are actually effective.
Therefore it is essential to focus both on cooperation between developing and industrialised countries and on networking among the countries of the EU.
There is no lack of excellent plans and programmes within the EU.
Examples we could mention are the drug prevention group in Finland that operates under the supervision of the National Research and Development Centre for Welfare and Health, and the Pompidou Group, a European Council cooperation group on drugs that was established in the 1970s on an initiative by the French President and that is planning several projects to reduce the supply and demand of drugs.
Now we also need a strong and clearly expressed political will to render the exchange and comparison of information as efficient as possible.
We will not achieve results merely through acts and plans, but it is through practical action that we can maximise the welfare of our people.
Mr President, following the adoption of the amendment tabled by Mr Lisi from the Group of the European People' s Party, who was elected from the Forza Italia lists, I have greater satisfaction in giving my explanation of vote, having voted for this measure.
Therapeutical communities are certainly extremely important.
As for my reasons for signing this as the pensioners' representative, I have to say that, unfortunately, we rarely find pensioners who are drug-addicts, because young people die prematurely from this terrible scourge.
I would like to emphasise that this measure is very positive, but we must be the first to set young people an example, because only examples that lead them back to the family unit and to the sound principles of yesteryear will overcome the scourge of this century.
- (DE) Mr President, I, along with many of my colleagues, have approved Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou' s report.
It should be emphasised here this morning, though, that controversial discussions on this report have been held in this House for months.
In committee alone, there have been 130 amendments to this report.
Weeks of compromise discussions were needed and such a report is then voted on here on a Friday morning with a relatively modest number of people present.
As I listened to the debates here yesterday, in particular the comments of Mr Poettering, as to how dramatic and important it all now was and saying that a vote definitely had to be taken here this week, that is not now borne out by the presence of his own group here this morning.
I therefore regret that a procedure as important as this should enjoy such limited attention.
What is even more splendid is when the authors of this matter become embroiled in intensive talks afterwards.
In any case, we have given our approval so that Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou can then see the report home with an extensive majority.
I have voted against the Giannakou-Koutsikou report.
It is a very lengthy document which represents all shades of opinion and contains a multitude of considerations and objectives.
It gives enormous scope.
It is opposed to trafficking and profiteers, rightly so.
It endeavours to help people fight their addiction, again rightly so.
But this means that it is spreading itself rather thinly and the thrust of the document is that with more funding and tougher prosecution, we can knock the problem on the head.
Quite interestingly, Mr Schulz' s proposal to give urban and regional experiments more of a chance, has been rejected.
I fear that this text will now be used incorrectly, namely to support those, in particular, who advocate more repression against drug users and think that they will solve the problem in this way.
As such, the PPE viewpoint has, in principle, dominated after all and this was a reason for me not to go along with it.
- (PT) Each Member State has a crucial role in defining its policy on combating drug addiction.
We feel that we are upholding a policy which genuinely attacks its causes and effectively combats drug trafficking and the associated money laundering.
We are also upholding a policy that does not penalise those who suffer from drug addiction or their families, who should be supported by means of adequate public services, which are free, in terms of treatment and reintegration into society.
But the fight against drug trafficking and money laundering also requires action and coordination at EU level (and at UN level) in the fight that must be developed against powerful criminal organisations which, through illegal activities and money, undermine and tap into the economic and financial system.
In order to achieve this, we need a genuinely "strong political will, expressed without any ambiguity" . We also need to turn words into deeds, by mobilising the necessary Community financial resources to combat this tragic situation that affects thousands of drug addicts and their families.
We cannot continue to reduce "social costs" in order to meet the criteria imposed on national budgets by the Stability Pact, whilst repeating fine words about social support that are then never actually put into practice.
We are convinced that if it has adequate resources, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction based in Lisbon can make a major contribution to deepening the study and the proposals for measures to combat the scourge of drugs.
- (DE)Briefly, I would like to have it put on record that our Group has rejected the Newton Dunn report on account of the fact we did not agree with the legal basis to this report.
What we have here is a classic ruling on the establishment of a process in one of the various pillars of our Treaty principles.
Mr Newton Dunn chose the first pillar whereas we were of the opinion that the procedure should be left in the third pillar. The reason for this is that in the third pillar the group of offenders who are guilty of counterfeiting travel documents is more wide-ranging than in the first pillar where Mr Newton Dunn had established it, where the focus is exclusively on the tracking of the counterfeiting of documents for illegal immigrants.
That may be appropriate from the ideological viewpoint but is politically wrong because someone who, as a drugs dealer, counterfeits documents must also be criminally prosecuted.
In this respect, we did not want to vote against Mr Newton Dunn' s practical proposals with regard to the combating of document counterfeiting - which we support - as far as we are concerned it is exclusively a matter of the legal basis.
Thank you for your attention.
I would also like to thank Messrs Poettering and Pirker for their attention.
Mr President, I would like to explain the vote in favour of the Newton Dunn report by highlighting that, with its provisions, it fits into the fight against illegal immigration and the numerous criminal acts committed by many illegal immigrants, whether purposefully or not, to the detriment of all the citizens in the European Union, particularly the elderly.
I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to the fact that it would be a good idea for all the expenditure, all the personnel and all the means used in the past to supervise the borders within the European Union - for example, between Italy and France, France and Germany etc., that is, between the European States which now have a common border - to be relocated to the external borders of the European Union in order to combat this phenomenon of crime and illegal immigration more effectively.
Mr President, I would like to take the floor regarding the Giannakou-Koutsikou report, in order to remind you that yesterday the Presidency was informed that that this debate would be opened contrary to the provisions of Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure.
I am only saying this so that it will be recorded in the Minutes.
This Presidency does not know what to do with these Rules of Procedure any more.
I hope that, at least in the future, some sort of order can be re-established; if this is not the case, then tell us clearly that Parliament' s work is in the hands of the Presidency and not the Rules of Procedure.
In any case, the fact remains that the debate and the vote have taken place contrary to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, in that the last French version was distributed at 9.52 p.m. on Wednesday, and we opened the debate well before the 24 hours had passed.
Mr Turco, your comment will of course be noted, but the sessional services inform me that the deadlines were, in principle, respected, and that all the language versions were distributed in due time, but we have taken note of your comment.
Mr President, I did not ask a question and did not want a reply.
I simply protested that Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure was not complied with.
I do not need a reply because this has already happened and can no longer be prevented.
You did not comply with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, full stop.
This has all been noted, Mr Turco.
Application of Community law to the Canary Islands
The next item is the report (A5-0053/1999) by Mr Medina Ortega, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1911/1991 on the application of the provisions of Community law to the Canary Islands (COM(1999) 0226 - C5-0127/1999 - 19990111(CNS))
Mr President, the Commission has presented a proposed regulation intended to amend another Community regulation, Regulation (EEC) 1911/91, which established a special legal status for the Canary Islands.
Regulation (EEC) 1911/91 is in turn a regulation which amends the statute established for these islands by the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Community in 1985.
The Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Community - in article 25 and in Protocol 2 annexed to that Act - provided the Canary Islands with a special status which was designed to reflect the fact that those islands were not integrated into the Common agricultural policy and, furthermore, because it was not subject to the Community Customs Union, the Community customs rules, nor Value Added Tax.
In this way, the Act of Accession intended to maintain as far as possible the special status which the Canary Islands had had within the Spanish State since their incorporation into the Kingdom of Castile in the 15th Century.
It was a region which was not subject to the ordinary tax regime nor, therefore, the customs rules, owing to its great distance from Peninsular Spain.
The Act of Accession of 1985 contained a future development clause - section 4 of article 25 - which was aimed at preventing the Canary Islands, as a result of European Union development, from being excluded from European construction.
I would say that public opinion in the Canary Islands was, on the one hand, in favour of maintaining this special status but, on the other hand, had no desire whatsoever to remain outside the sphere of European construction.
When the Single Act was adopted in 1986, it became necessary to amend that special status and this was done by means of Regulation (EEC) 1911/91.
That amendment establishes three or four very important changes: firstly, the Canary Islands were incorporated into the Common agricultural policy and the Common fisheries policy; secondly, they were incorporated into the Community Customs Union, and are therefore subject to ordinary customs duties; and thirdly, it removed the special tax rules which they had, specifically the island taxes - the so-called special licence tax arrangements - which were designed to protect local industry.
Regulation (EEC) 1911/91 has led to the progressive dismantling of the Canary Islands' special tax rules and their incorporation into the Community' s common rules.
But this has caused difficulties, because the problem with the Canary Islands, as with the other outermost regions - the Azores, Madeira and the French overseas departments - is that they are a long way from European territory, divided into small island areas, with very small markets, with enormous transport problems and, furthermore, with problems due, for example, to over-population, very irregular rain patterns and poor soil, which hinder the development of normal activities.
This explains why, in the past, the Canary Islands always enjoyed a special status within Spain.
The dismantling of the Canary Islands' special tax status, in terms of customs duties, would threaten to dismantle a series of small local industries - food, tobacco and small commercial industries - which would disappear if we were to remove that small degree of protection provided by their special taxes, specifically the tax on production and imports.
The Commission has been thorough and has taken account of this, and has therefore begun a negotiation of an adaptation of the tax on production and imports, in order that that tax may not disappear.
There has also been another issue: the Treaty of Maastricht of 1992 included a declaration recognising the special status of the outermost regions - the Canary Islands, the Azores, Madeira and the French overseas departments - and section 2 of article 299 of the EC Treaty, after its amendment by means of the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997, provides for special status for the outermost regions.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is now in force.
In accordance with the thinking behind the new status for the outermost regions - which was also confirmed by the Cologne European Council which asked the Commission to present measures for the outermost regions before 31 December - at the moment the incorporation of these regions into the European Union does not necessarily require tax and customs harmonisation, but rather allows differentiated treatment, for example the maintenance of the port charges in the French overseas departments and the special rules for the Azores and Madeira.
Although the Commission' s proposed regulation began to be negotiated before the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the Committee on Legal Affairs - which in general approves the proposed regulation, since it is aimed at delaying the removal of the Canary Islands' taxes and therefore plays a protective role - we believe that, after the entry into force of article 299.2, rather than a simple easing of the limits of the special treatment, we need to paralyse the removal of this special treatment because it is possible that, in the measures which the Commission must propose for the outermost regions in accordance with the said article 299.9, which provides for special measures in the field of fiscal policy, the Commission may allow a limited reinstatement so that the relevant small local industries do not suffer.
As I said before, Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously approved the regulations, but proposes a series of amendments intended to indicate that article 299.2, which is already in force, establishes an additional basis for the Commission' s proposed regulation.
We are not trying to oppose the Commission' s regulation, which establishes an additional basis.
That additional basis would justify a measure which one could describe as containing and detaining the removal of customs duties.
As a consequence of that reference to article 299.2 and the thinking which I am explaining at the moment, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed a series of amendments to the annexes of the regulation to halt the removal of customs duties in any of the areas where they are currently in force.
It is a question of maintaining the current protectionist structure of the taxes until the Commission presents its new proposals in the field of tax policy.
As the Commissioner knows, next week in Brussels a partnership meeting will take place in which the Commission will discuss the proposals with the governments of France, Spain and Portugal, the governments of the Autonomous Regions and the MEPs from those regions.
Therefore, it would seem appropriate that the Commission approve and express its agreement with Parliament' s proposals - the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs - which are very reasonable and are in accordance with the Commission' s thinking but reinforce it by referring to the new article 299.2, which will provide for and allow the development of a special status.
It does not make much sense now to totally remove the system when in a few months it is possible that the Commission will have to propose its reinstatement.
This is the thinking, this is the problem, and I hope that Parliament will follow the recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs, approve the regulation and also approve the 19 amendments which the said Committee has proposed.
Good morning, Mr President.
Firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Members who have presented amendments.
I believe that the words of Mr Medina Ortega have clarified the approach and position which the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has agreed unanimously, on this essential issue, an issue which is important for the Canary Islands, but which affects all the other outermost regions of the European Union.
With reference to the subject of today' s debate, the Canary Islands, I must say that few regions have lived or are living through such an intense process of European integration.
Since their incorporation in 1986, the Canary Islands have held significant and intense debates.
There have been public demonstrations for and against the full incorporation of the islands, there have been governmental crises and even the resignation of the President of an autonomous government, the specific cause of which was the conditions for the accession negotiations.
After thirteen years, it is time to make an assessment.
To this end the regulation which we are debating at the moment in Parliament is very useful, since from this assessment we can reach conclusions which will allow us to determine the position we must take.
The assessment is clearly positive, although we must recognise that there are enormous worries and concerns attached to it, as the rapporteur has explained effectively.
These concerns stem from what we are debating here, but also from other issues which are being studied and dealt with by this Parliament.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that at the moment in the Canaries there is a lot of uncertainty with regard to the future of bananas, since the Canary Islands are Europe' s top producer of that fruit, which is so important from economic, social, scenic and environmental points of view.
However - and I repeat - today we are talking about Regulation 1911/91 concerning the application of Community Law to the Canary Islands.
The arguments and explanations which the rapporteur has given us today are clear and describe the long journey made by the Canary Islands to arrive at the process of incorporation into the European Union.
Nevertheless it is essential in our opinion that this reform is carried out within the time frame laid down.
This is an absolutely essential issue.
We should remember the mandate of the Cologne European Council to the Commission; we should remember that before the end of 1999 there was supposed to be specific and special treatment which has still not happened; we should remember that at the moment we are debating the Commission' s legislative agenda for 2000.
It is important that in this legislative agenda we include the special treatments laid down in article 299.2 of the EC Treaty for the French overseas departments, the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands, because, otherwise, we would reach a situation or position in which these European regions, which are vital to each of the Member States and to the European Union, are put at an absolute disadvantage in relation to the European Union as a whole.
To end, I would like to say that our Group supports the 19 amendments and the legislative text, but asks that we do not proceed to a second reading, but that this regulation be approved within the time limits laid down. We ask the Commission to be sensitive to the rapporteur' s views, to the views of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and that, please, the regulation be approved within the envisaged time limits because, otherwise, the situation in the Canary Islands would be of great concern.
Mr President, I am taking the floor at this point to express my support, and that of the Socialist Group, for the work and the conclusions regarding the proposals presented today to this Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, by my good friend and colleague Professor Manuel Medina, in the well-founded hope that this Assembly will fully approve the proposals in question.
Of course our intention is not simply to support a colleague.
In reality our position - now through this intervention and later through our vote - is that of Spaniards and Europeans, and perhaps even more as Spanish and European Socialists, who are expressing their solidarity with the Canary Islands and their men and women.
I am speaking of a solidarity which the Canary Islands require in a specific and particular way, precisely because of the specific and particular characteristics of their geography and history.
Let it be clear therefore that what we want is to give a little more to the Canaries, to compensate for adverse conditions, and thereby prevent a situation where they have a little less than the other Europeans.
The rapporteur, Manuel Medina, has explained in a rigorous and full way the legal arguments which explain how the Canaries has been defended for centuries, within a Spanish context, by means of different mechanisms which allowed those distant islands to overcome the negative circumstances which I spoke of earlier, and, with the skill, tenacity and efforts of their men and women, firstly resist and then gradually build reasonably modern and prosperous societies.
We were aware of the problems of the Canary Islands when we negotiated the accession of our country to the European Community and the successive Treaties, up until Amsterdam, and the constant concern to always take that special situation into account was reflected in the special Protocol 2 of the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal, back in 1985, in Council Regulation (EEC) 1911/91, which approved the said Protocol, and in section 2 of article 299 of the EC Treaty, which describes the outermost regions of the Union, with special mention of the Canary Islands and lays down the very flexibility in the application of general rules in certain vulnerable cases which we are discussing today.
It was precisely Protocol 2, which I referred to earlier, which, applying traditional formulas to the new rules, established the so-called "APIM" (Tax on Production and Exports), a modest duty applied to certain products entering the Canary Islands, many of which originate from the Spanish Peninsular and others from other States.
At the moment there is a process under way which will lead to the negotiation between the Spanish Government and the Commission, with a view to amending the said Regulation (EEC) 1911/91, which specifically regulates the APIM in question.
The concern which this amendment has caused in the Canary Islands - and which we are recognising here - has increased as a result of a certain lack of confidence in the ability of the government of my country to appreciate the true nature and gravity of this problem and in its desire to tackle that problem in the said negotiation with the Commission.
In reality there are only three alternatives.
The first is the complete removal of the APIM, which would have very negative effects for the many small and medium-sized businesses on the islands which, although they make little profit from their production, survive thanks to the fact that similar products arriving from outside are taxed, and it is therefore still viable to continue producing them in the Canaries.
The second alternative is less harsh but ultimately just as harmful.
It would consist of eliminating the APIM gradually until it disappears completely after a few years, perhaps maintaining them partially for a few products.
The third solution is the one which Professor Medina proposes and which we understand that the Canary Islands requires and wants, the one which this Parliament will probably vote for in a few moments.
Based on the legal considerations of the EC Treaty, we argue that the APIM be kept as it is for now, and that it be consolidated within the obligatory reform of Regulation (EEC) 1911/91.
We hope that this Parliament is up to the job and does not disappoint our fellow citizens ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, Commissioner, for five centuries of European history, the Canary Islands have always enjoyed special consideration in terms of shaping their presence in the Spanish and European worlds.
In fact, when the Kingdom of Spain acceded to the European Community in 1985 the door was left open for an amendment of the status of the European model for the Canary Islands.
In 1991, when Regulation 1911/91 was approved, we experienced Community adaptation with regard to the application of the provisions of Community Law in the islands.
At that point a transitional period of ten years was set so that the integration of the economy of the Canary Islands into the Community would not be traumatic for some local production sectors and, de facto, amongst other things, a tax on production and imports, the APIM, was established with a view to protecting the integration of small basic Canary Island industries into the Community Customs Area.
The said tax, which protected local industry in relation to imported goods, would be gradually dismantled between 1995 and the end of 2000.
Curiously, this removal of the APIM has not had the desired effect amongst the sensitive industries in the Canary Islands and therefore the Spanish authorities, the Canarian authorities and the economic operators affected have requested that the Community authorities amend Regulation 1911/91 in order to stop the removal of the APIM until June 2000, which the European Commission appreciates.
Nevertheless, some of us, as Members from the Canary Islands, as well as considering it reasonable to extend the validity of this tax in accordance with the Commission' s proposal, have requested by means of amendments that it affect the most sensitive products, all the sensitive products produced in the Canary Islands.
We also request that this customs approach be applied to a new tax with a structure similar to the old APIM, with the aim of incorporating it into a package of specific measures of a fiscal nature which the Council, on the proposal of the Commission, must implement next year - as Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya and Mr Medina Ortega have just said - by means of the proposed permanent statute for the outermost regions - which include the Canary Islands - in implementation of article 299.2, which provides for differentiated treatment, as you know, with regard to the application of the provisions of the Treaty.
This very week the Autonomous Parliament of the Canary Islands, during a political debate on this issue, unanimously approved an agreement which includes fiscal measures and asks Europe to provide for the establishment of a tax similar to the APIM.
Congratulations to Mr Medina Ortega on his report and on his receptiveness to the amendments presented.
I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Medina Ortega on his report on the proposal for a regulation concerning the Canary Islands.
Following its examination of the APIM/Arbitrio on production and imports in the Archipelago, the Commission concluded that even if the majority of economic sectors could adapt to the requirements of the single market, the disappearance of the APIM on 31 December 2000 could irremediably affect certain product sectors.
This point has already been made in this House.
The Commission, in collaboration with the Spanish and the Canarian authorities, has identified the most sensitive products in a number of sectors.
For these products the Commission considers it necessary to suspend the dismantling of the tax for a transitional period which will not go beyond 30 June 2000.
I note with satisfaction that Mr Medina Ortega's report largely supports the approach proposed by the Commission.
However, he considers it regrettable that the measure proposed is reserved to a limited number of products and that it does not refer to the legal basis provided by Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
I can assure you that the Commission understands this position perfectly.
I would like nevertheless to draw your attention to the fact that this constitutes a time-limited adaptation of the current rules.
It must therefore be distinguished from any measure which could be taken on the basis of the new Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
This proposal stipulates that the Commission, in collaboration with the Spanish authorities will examine before the disappearance of the APIM the effects of this tax on the sectors concerned.
The Commission will submit, if necessary, a proposal to the Council based on Article 299(2) on the measures which would be necessary in order not to compromise the existence of certain particularly fragile local activities.
The products included in the annex to this proposal are the result of work by the Spanish and the Canarian authorities and the Commission.
Consequently, any amendment to the list of the products must, on the one hand, be justified economically and, on the other hand, be subject to a study by the Commission services in order to check the consistency of the measures with its other policies.
The Commission has not yet received such justification which would enable it to study an amendment to the Regulation's annex.
It is not therefore in a position to accept those amendments concerning the extension of the list of the products.
However, I can assure both you, Mr President, and the rapporteur that in future negotiations on a proposal concerning the Canary Islands on the basis of Article 299(2) of the Treaty that the Commission will take account of your comments on the matter and the comments of Parliament during the debate.
I wish to thank you for your support for this proposal and I will undertake to draw the attention of the Commissioner responsible to this whole debate.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
(Parliament approved the draft legislative resolution)
Shipbuilding
The next item is the statement by the Commission on the shipbuilding industry.
The Council Regulation of 29 June 1998 stipulates that: "The Commission shall present to the Council a regular report on the market situation and appraise whether European yards are affected by anti-competitive practices.
If it is established that the industry is being caused injury by anti-competitive practice of any kind, the Commission shall, where appropriate, propose to the Council measures to address the problem.
The first report shall be presented to the Council no later than 31 September 1999" .
In line with this requirement the Commission prepared its first report which concludes that the shipbuilding industry in the global market is facing serious over-capacity problems.
The situation continues to deteriorate as capacities continue to grow, competition is becoming stronger and prices fall.
The report examines in detail nine contracts awarded to Korean shipyards and finds that none is concluded at prices covering full costs and that injury is caused to EU yards.
The report suggests that action should be taken by Member States and the IMF World Bank fora in order to verify whether the conditions and assumptions under which the IMF-led rescue package was given to Korea are fully respected in the case of shipyards.
The industry, Member States and the Commission should collect all the necessary information that could form a basis for the preparation and lodging of a trade barrier regulation complaint and assess the appropriateness of resorting to a WTO action, the Commission should continue its market monitoring efforts in cooperation with the industry and, finally, all parties concerned should make an effort to establish a level playing field for the sector.
The Industry Council discussed the Commission's report at its meeting of 9 November 1999 and issued a Council conclusion on the situation in world shipbuilding.
It shares the Commission's view on the critical situation of the shipbuilding sector worldwide and calls for continuing action to address the situation.
Following the Council meeting, bilateral discussions have been held with the Korean Government at the level of the Korean Deputy Minister for Trade Affairs and the corresponding officials in the Directorate-General for enterprise and the Directorate-General for trade.
A bilateral meeting of the Korean and the EU industry and administration is under preparation for mid-December 1999.
The intention is to organise a meeting on shipbuilding in the context of the OECD.
The Commission will continue its own monitoring efforts with the help of the industry and will collate and evaluate all the information and evidence collected, in line with the Council's conclusion.
If necessary, further meetings will take place.
The Commission will present its findings to the Industry Council and to the European Parliament in the spring of next year.
My colleagues, Mr Lamy and Mr Solbes Mira are cooperating closely with me on this issue.
On the basis of this report the appropriate action will have to be decided.
- (DE) Mr President, Mr Liikanen, please listen to the case I am about to make.
The Council of Ministers for Industry met on 9 November and I made the following comments in this regard at home. Europe has finally found strong words but deeds must now follow.
We are now giving a clear signal to South Korea to abandon unfair methods of competition in shipbuilding.
We will not accept domestic, i.e. European, shipbuilding being driven out of the market by unfair practices after it has been painstakingly modernised.
In Germany alone, 21,000 jobs are threatened in shipbuilding along with 125,000 more in the supply sector.
The irony of the situation lies, above all, in the fact that the hidden subsidies were facilitated by credits from the International Monetary Fund to surmount the financial crisis in the Far East.
Mr Liikanen, following the interesting report from the Commission of 13 October, the shipyard action day, Europe, through the Council of Ministers for Industry, has given Korea a yellow card.
Any continuation of Korean dumping practices must be punished with a sending off.
The European shipbuilding industry finds itself in a serious crisis, one that has not just come about today.
An urgent decision must now be taken as to whether to support shipbuilding in Europe and in so doing support the preservation of the entire maritime industry or to leave this hi-tech branch of industry to others.
There can only be one answer to this: a clear declaration of our belief in European shipyards.
Anyone who has been closely involved with shipbuilding knows that what we are dealing with here today is high technology, a branch of industry which is very much part of the future.
Europe cannot, and must not, give it up.
There are also critics, however.
Firstly, there are those who consider shipbuilding to still be an antiquated heavy industry, whose artificial preservation in Europe would come at too high a price, although a glance at, or visit to, one of the highly productive and efficient European shipyards tells a different story.
I would be very pleased to arrange visits along these lines because I can tell you that it would be worth it.
Secondly, shipbuilding is sometimes classified as a hi-tech industry, but then it is implied that shipbuilders are over-dramatising their situation somewhat.
It is said that they are just after financial benefits at a national and EU level, as happens in other branches of industry.
Thirdly, Who gets the money?
The shipowners or the shipyards?
The image of the shipyard has, on the whole, changed dramatically.
The number of people employed in coastal regions or monopolistic ports that are already depressed has declined dramatically as a result of structural change.
New technologies, fields of work and areas of management in particular as well as new tasks have overtaken the nostalgic Kon-Tiki and the warship.
Road to sea transport projects to relieve the traditional road networks require all types of ship, including just in time feeders and modern container ships, rapid ferry-boats and high-speed yachts, multi-purpose ships for the fishing industry and the coast guard service, large and small cruise ships and so on.
Europe' s maritime know-how in traditional roles and new market segments is a reliable, sustainable and natural resource and thus constitutes an added value for Europe.
Europe' s medium-sized shipyards, in particular, have developed a high level of inventiveness in this field, but research and development, not just production and acquisition require money, and this is where aid comes in.
Anyone who knows me knows that I fight furiously against subsidies of all kinds, for distortions of competition follow hard on their heels, as a rule.
It is not for nothing that I am, in addition, a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
It is clear that if Korea continues to act in this way, it will undercut itself and will slide into financial ruin, with only itself to blame.
Secondly, the Korean economy is part of the global market.
We are on the verge of new WTO negotiations.
Thirdly, Korea needs support to lift itself out of national bankruptcy.
The IMF payments are making a clear statement.
Fourthly, Europe needs Korea.
Just look at the order books and the volume of investment, in spite of the worldwide overcapacity which has been mentioned.
This means that until a trade policy is developed by both Korea and Europe by means of bilateral negotiations and/or multilateral negotiations within the scope of the OECD, IMF and the WTO, as mentioned already by Mr Liikanen, enabling fair competition, we need various measures which are valid for a determined period until the present critical situation has been overcome.
In my opinion, direct but contract-related support could be part of this, temporarily.
This is the only instrument that has a direct effect, is transparent and, furthermore, strengthens competition.
Returning to so-called European individual solutions, on the other hand, can mean that competition inside Europe, in addition, is distorted yet further, as in the past.
We therefore need a strategy of different approaches.
We would like to assist the Commission and the Council of Industrial Ministers in this approach with all our strength and energy.
Commissioner Liikanen, for many years, firstly as a member of the "economic" committee and now as a member of the "industry" committee, I have been dealing with issues involving the shipbuilding industry.
More particularly, over the last three years, I have, on several occasions, expressed concern to the Commission about distortions of competition at world level, made worse by the fact that Europe has always set itself strict standards which our competitors prefer to ignore.
What is more, in many cases the only response I received from the Commissioners and their departments was a blunt refusal to acknowledge the problem.
The Commission seems now to have become aware of the situation, and I am delighted to see this because, while one may regret the thousands upon thousands of jobs in Europe which have been lost in the meantime, as we say in French, "better late than never" .
Today there no longer seems to be any point in going back over past problems and that is why, this morning, I shall ask you some specific questions about the future which are not just concerned with Korea.
The first question concerns the United States.
I have learnt that an American shipyard, one which has not built any vessels for more than forty years, has received the order for two passenger boats intended to serve the islands of Hawaii, since American law reserves the construction of boats serving internal routes for American shipyards.
What do you plan to do about this?
What does the European Union plan to do in order to open up the American market to European products in this field?
This is my second question. If my information is accurate, a proportion of the wages of workers involved in the construction of these passenger boats is paid by the United States Navy, on the grounds of the preservation of shipbuilding capacity.
What do you plan to do, Commissioner, on the matter of this American aid which does not seem to be compatible with the regulations in force in this field?
My third question is to do with Korea.
Since 1997, the Korean Gas Company has been restricting tender competitions for the construction of methane carriers to Korean shipyards only, again constituting, in my opinion, an infringement of the international regulations on the opening up of public procurement.
I ask you once again, Commissioner, what do you plan to do in order to open up the Korean market and fight against these decisions which do not appear to me to be legal?
My fourth question relates to the matter you referred to in your preliminary speech.
We have learnt or, to be more precise, we have received confirmation that the European Commission had in hand the first part of the report on the market situation drawn up in application of the Council Regulation which you mentioned.
This report indicates an anti-competitive practice by Korean shipbuilders, of between 13% and 14% of Korean costs of production.
As you mentioned, the question arises as to who pays the differences observed by the Commission between Korean costs of production and sale prices?
The answer seems obvious.
It is the Korean banking system, supported moreover by the IMF and the Korean State.
Until now, in spite of a number of reminders in this field, since it is not a new matter, the European Union and the Commission have taken no effective action to put an end to these indirect subsidies in Korea.
What tangible action do you plan to take today in order to act rapidly?
I shall conclude, Commissioner, by telling you that it is true that the European shipbuilding industry still receives aid.
Not a lot, but some.
In any case, it is scheduled that aid for orders will come to an end in December next year and I do not think we can reconcile ourselves to a laissez-faire policy.
That is why I am asking you, Commissioner, to at last draw up a trade policy worthy of the name.
That is why I am suggesting that you do not carry on saying, or having people say, that we do not have the instruments which would enable us to defend European jobs better in this sector.
That is why it is no longer possible to let constraints be placed on Europe which are not placed on our industrial competitors elsewhere in the world, in the shipbuilding sector as in many others.
That is why, finally, it is time to quite simply have done with the laissez-faire attitude which characterised the Brittan era.
Are Europe and the new Commission prepared to do so today?
Permit me, Commissioner Liikanen, to ask you the question once again.
Mr President, there has been a lot of criticism here this morning about the fact that contracts have been awarded to Korean companies and the damage that this has done to the European industries.
However, as in many other areas, the reason that contracts have been awarded to countries like Korea is surely because of the conditions that apply: for example workers in such countries get very low wages, working conditions and safety measures are very poor and unsatisfactory, because the health and safety of workers is not a priority.
Like in many industrial sectors, businesses are relocating to countries where they can exploit workers to their own advantage.
This is something that has to be addressed when we talk about, having a level playing field for the sector in Europe; in fact what we need is a level playing field internationally for workers.
We have to protect workers' rights.
We cannot exploit workers in some countries while protecting their rights in Europe.
Someone mentioned the EU imposing stringent measures in this sector in Europe.
But what should we do?
Lift those stringent measures?
They were applied for a reason.
There were reasons for imposing such stringent measures in the first place.
When it comes to shipbuilding itself, I also think that we need to look at what kind of shipbuilding takes place.
For example, as regards shipbuilding for the fishing sector, we have an over-capacity of fishing vessels within the European Union, so what kind of vessels should be built?
I think that emphasis should be put on the building of coastguard or marine protection vessels to control and monitor the common fisheries policy.
The vessels being built must support local industry and local coastal fishing.
Safety must be given priority.
When it comes to the building of vessels, we must ensure that the most advanced technology is used to ensure that they are as environmentally-friendly as possible.
A lot of vessels are used for transporting live animals.
First of all, the export of live animals is unacceptable.
In fact, it is completely wrong, especially when they are going to be slaughtered.
The kind of conditions they have to endure in large vessels are not acceptable, so if new vessels are being built we should ensure that the best standards possible are complied with and that measures are taken to ensure that, where live animals must be transported by sea in large vessels, all measures are taken to optimise conditions for them.
Another issue that has to be looked at in the building of new vessels is the whole issue of waste and waste facilities - and not just the waste derived from the operating vessels but also the waste produced during the trip, because marine pollution is a very important issue and a lot of marine pollution is caused by ships.
To come back to the issue of dumping vessels discarded within the European Union on other countries, we have to be very careful that we are not dumping unsafe and ecologically unsound vessels on countries at cheap prices.
This is unacceptable - it is just shifting our problem to other parts of the world, and the marine environment has no borders so anything that happens in one area eventually comes back to roost here.
The whole issue of unfair competition which people are criticising is caused by the fact that the industry itself is exploiting workers in certain parts of the world.
This has to stop.
Mr President, the European Union' s shipbuilding and ship repair industry is facing serious problems, as has been mentioned here, which shows that the recipes provided a few years ago are not giving the promised results.
The liberalisation of the industry and the policy of privatisation that has been pursued in various countries have not resolved the existing problems.
In the last two years, the situation has grown worse as a result of constant anti-competitive practices - as has already been mentioned here - particularly on the part of South Korea.
Employers' organisations and employees' organisations have both drawn attention to the serious consequences of this situation.
On 5 November, a day of action was held across Europe in which many dockyard workers in Portugal took part.
From Viana do Castelo to Margueira and Mitrena, via dockyards in the areas of Oporto, Aveiro and Figueira da Foz the workers are demanding a policy of upgrading the shipbuilding industry, of protecting jobs that are stable, worthwhile and that offer proper wages and a policy of promoting the exploitation of existing potential.
In order to understand the current situation, we must remember that the 1994 international agreement on the elimination of aid for shipbuilding in the context of the liberalisation of the industry is not being fulfilled.
This agreement should have come into force in 1996, but did not do so because it was not ratified by some countries, notably the United States, which was one of its main proponents but which, in the end, chose to continue supporting its own shipbuilding industry, as has also already been said here.
Contrary to what the European Council said in 1998, when it drew up the new rules on aid for shipbuilding, conditions of international competition did not, in the end, improve.
Support for the industry has ceased in the European Union but it has continued and even increased in other countries, amongst which South Korea stands out.
We know that this country has been concluding contracts at prices that are below the real costs of production, by benefiting from international subsidies via the International Monetary Fund, after the Asian crisis, which is destroying the order books of countries in the European Union, as the industry' s employers' organisations have stated.
The recent position of the Council on 9 November, despite being too little, too late, naturally shows that the fight put up by the shipbuilding industry is having an effect.
It is therefore crucial that the Council and the Member States thoroughly examine the measures that are necessary to protect this very important sector of industry in the European Union.
It is important to promote a policy which will stimulate shipbuilding and ship repair and, as is vital in the case of Portugal, to combine this with renewing merchant navy and fishing fleets and, at the same time, to promote the improvement of the living and working conditions of those involved.
It is also vital that the Commission makes this problem and its resolution a priority, that it recognises the need to review long-held positions and that it provides the European Parliament with full information on the damage that the European shipping industry has suffered.
Mr President, Commissioner, the question of shipbuilding must, quite obviously, be tackled comprehensively, taking one area of production at a time.
The Member States have acknowledged expertise in the field of military shipbuilding.
This is a field in which the Commission obviously does not have to intervene, but in which intergovernmental cooperation should be stepped up, so that Member States can safeguard and increase their expertise and independence, at acceptable cost.
It would be very dangerous to allow disinvestment in this field and one can only regret the recent problems afflicting in particular the Horizon frigate programme and the abrupt withdrawal of some partners, which upset the overall balance of the programme.
As regards the construction of passenger and merchant vessels, both highly competitive, labour-intensive sectors, here too the Member States' remarkable expertise and outstanding capabilities must be protected and developed and not allowed to go outside Europe.
As regards heavy manufacturing units affected by significant technological developments, Member States must be able to implement a policy fostering the technological conversion of their shipyards, so that the latter can become active in market sectors which allow them to exploit their know-how.
The closure of any shipyard represents an irreparable loss of expertise for the Member States and for the European Union.
The Union must not, therefore, on the basis of ill-advised notions of free competition, prevent states from promoting the conversion of manufacturing units with a view to preserving both know-how and jobs.
In this respect, the example of the shipyards on France' s Atlantic coast, whose brilliant recovery following a period of crisis has been particularly spectacular, and the role the French State played in this process, should be pondered.
We must be very careful to ensure that the forthcoming WTO negotiations make it possible to put an end to the unacceptable dumping practised by a number of countries and do not endanger a sector in which world competition is intense, since it is highly labour-intensive, difficult to automate, and therefore prey to strong pressure in favour of relocation to countries where labour costs are far lower than those we have in the European Union.
Finally, Mr President, I wish to mention the subject of the construction of fishing boats.
This sector, which may, in the overall scheme of things, seem a rather marginal one, does however play a crucial role in the balance of the economic and social fabric of our coastal regions.
The European Community plays an essential role in this field. This sector is, in fact, almost totally dependent on the common fisheries policy.
But for two years now the European Commission has frozen Community aid for the construction of new vessels and, by the same token, that of Member States, until the objectives for the destruction of boats outlined in the multiannual guidance programmes have been reached.
This deadlock, which has serious consequences, was compounded by a refusal to take the sale of boats to third countries into consideration in calculating the reduction in capacity of the European fleet.
In considering only the boats destroyed, the Commission is thus behind a considerable loss of earnings to the detriment of fishermen and ship-owners.
What is more, the Commission is today proposing to prohibit any renewal in the sectors which are not advancing as quickly as others and is making it compulsory to find and destroy any capacity which exceeds by more than 30% the renewed boat capacity in the sectors which are up to date with the MAGP objectives.
This situation and these proposals entail a worrying ageing of the European fishing fleet, discourage young people from investing their energies in it, cause a significant loss of sales for the specialist shipyard sector, making some of them dangerously vulnerable, and entail a clear risk for our seafarers as far as safety is concerned.
We hope that the Council will be able to make the Commission see reason and carry through the proposals which the European Parliament made at the time after close consultation with Member States, in the report by our fellow Member, Mr Arias Cañete.
Whenever a shipyard disappears, particularly valuable know-how built up over time, linked with the seafaring history of a region, disappears along with it.
Everything must be done to prevent this.
The Commission must also show consistency.
After urging the construction of netters, on the grounds of the selectivity of the drift net, the Commission then, under pressure from some lobbies and some Member States, without scientific basis and in a discriminatory fashion, prohibited the use of this same drift net in some seas only.
It recommended experimenting with alternative gear, but did not envisage a specific financial chapter or a specific kilowatt package enabling boats to be built in line with the new regulations which it had issued.
Now, it has been confirmed, after analysing the results of the first experiments, that existing netters cannot be adapted to comply with the new conditions, and new boats will have to be built.
I would therefore be grateful to you, Commissioner Liikanen, if you would point out to your colleague, Mr Fischler, that shipowners are having trouble understanding this logic, or rather this absence of logic.
The Commission shall obviously have to make the necessary arrangements to enable the construction of ships required by the changes in regulations which it has decided on.
In conclusion, Mr President, Commissioner, if the European Commission really wishes to make a contribution to the expansion of the shipbuilding sector in Europe, it is enough for it to clearly defend the principle of fair trade at the WTO talks, to leave Member States the freedom to intervene directly in this strategic sector in order to convert shipyards, by means of technological modifications, for activity in profitable market sectors, to promote cooperation between businesses in order to contribute towards improving the overall efficiency of each type of shipyard and, finally, in the context of the common fisheries policy, to take the necessary decisions to enable the controlled renewal of our fishing fleet, the continuation of the expertise of our shipyards and the vitality, Mr President, of our coastal regions which are dependent on fishing.
Mr President, the shipbuilding industry within the EU Member States has been undergoing an overhaul for many years now.
This has coincided with a subsidy race at world-market level.
Taxpayers and shipyards in various Member States are at the receiving end of this, whilst shipowners who can purchase ships at far below their cost price come out on top.
I think that the Commission, the Council and the ladies and gentlemen here present will all agree that this situation must be brought to an end as soon as possible.
Opinions on how this should be done vary.
Consequently, this debate should not be restricted to the practice of unfair competition, something that the South Koreans are guilty of.
Everyone within the shipbuilding industry knows that there is no level playing field within the European Union either.
The Council is therefore right in deciding, for the time being, not to make any changes to the agreement to end the generic support to the shipbuilding industry as of 1 January 2001.
This request is mainly expressed by the Member States that have been paying out most of the support per order for years now.
As far as tangible support is concerned, this amounts to 3.5 times the amount given by the least generous government.
Subsidy policy is always bad policy because it sustains bad management and often even rewards it.
A far better alternative would be a well-thought out industrial policy for the shipbuilding industry aimed at innovative production methods, which are intensive in terms of the knowledge involved and which enhance efficiency.
The current shipbuilding directive contains various obscure support schemes in respect of research and development, environment, innovation and regional support policy, which result in the "good" shipyards being punished and the "bad" ones rewarded.
Any government should do the opposite in fact.
The OECD agreement, which provides for abolishing order support, in particular, is not a panacea.
South Korea and also the EU Member States are clever enough to keep supporting their maritime industries in a non-transparent manner.
The European Commission should lodge a complaint with the WTO against South Korea without delay and at the same time continue the inquiry into the orders placed with South Korean shipyards.
If ships are sold at approximately 20% below cost price, then this is a sure case of dumping.
Pressure must be exerted at the same time.
The Daewoo shipyard, which has been bankrupt for some time, but is still launching ships, should be dismantled and not resold.
I would also ask the Commissioner to institute an inquiry into the actual subsidy level per order within the European Union.
The transitional regulation to abolish generic order subsidies should also be reconsidered.
Countries that make an unlimited budget available for this create a run on subsidies.
The consequence will be that excellent ship yards - these are often the most efficient ones - will go under in the course of 2001-2002 and it will be much harder to compete with Japan, South-East Asia and the United States with the least efficient ship yards which will then be left in the European Union.
A possible delay in the discontinuation of generic order subsidies can be considered if the transitional period is abolished. I would appreciate it if Commissioner Liikanen were to take this into serious consideration.
Could the Commissioner ask the IMF to investigate where the subsidies to South Korea eventually ended up?
Finally, I would like to reiterate what I said on 31 March 1998.
The strategic significance of the European shipbuilding industry is evident.
We want to be able to continue to build our own ships, even if we are forced to help the sector out due to external circumstances.
But let us not make a mess of it within the European Union by having all sorts of obscure regulations and by blowing taxpayers' money in the process.
I am sure that that would not do the sector any good whatsoever.
The end goal should still be the same: the abolition of all kinds of government subsidies so that each shipyard gets the price it deserves.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is altogether excellent that the Industry Council at its meeting last week unanimously approved a list of measures to eliminate the situation of unhealthy competition caused by Korea.
Hopefully these measures will work, as South Korea' s operations really weaken the prospects for success of European shipyards in the face of already intense competition from elsewhere.
As the Finnish Minister for Trade and Industry clearly stated at the meeting, the EU, however, must not give as good as it gets when it comes to South Korea; in other words, it must not return to the idea that it is not prepared to give up its shipyards.
To borrow the Minister' s words, continuing such support would be tantamount to the EU shooting itself in the foot.
This is precisely what the South Koreans must be hoping for.
For a long time now the Commission has aimed to give up shipyard aid in its present form, and this aim should absolutely be maintained.
The idea is to replace shipyard aid with newly designed investment and environmental aid schemes and grant more aid to research and innovation, which is what Mrs Langenhagen so eloquently spoke about.
With the new schemes the Commission aspires to support a more environment-friendly, safer European fleet, as was decided in 1997 in connection with the guidelines for state aid for maritime transport.
I gladly welcome this policy, as long as it is also implemented in practice.
I would especially like to remind the Commissioner that the Union promised Finland, when we were negotiating membership, that it would take account of our remoteness and climate when deciding its aims for navigation policy for the whole continent.
In July 1999, the Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communications notified the Commission of the interest subsidy programme for vessel acquisitions, set up to promote the purchase and basic repair of safe and environment-friendly cargo ships which can sail easily through icy waters, these being essential in Northern Europe.
There is broad national consensus on the issue in the Finnish Parliament, as shown by the fact that, exceptionally, on its own initiative, the parliament increased powers to solicit acquisitions in the 1999 budget.
As a former Minister of Finance, Commissioner Liikanen will understand the significance of this.
Now, however, it would appear that officials in the Commission' s Directorate-General for competition have a firm intention to interpret the programme in question as aid to shipyards, although the programme does not affect the competitive position of shipyards, as a ship receiving aid can be ordered from any country whatsoever.
This is also what was stated in the Commission' s letter of 4 August 1999 by officials in Directorate-General VII when they pointed out that the aid had no connection with shipyards in the EU.
I would also like to take the opportunity of asking the Commissioner how the Commission intends to ensure environmentally friendly developments and greater safety in maritime transport in Northern Europe, if it does not allow the implementation of the action framework it created itself.
Although we have clearly decided to abandon shipyard aid, the recent events in South Korea cannot be allowed to lead to a situation where the Union starts to confuse the old-fashioned shipyard aid with the action based on the 1997 guidelines, which did not relate to competition policy but were purely in line with sustainable development and the 'safety of the seas' doctrine.
Finally I would ask you, Commissioner Liikanen, how it is possible for a Member State to create a policy on navigation if it cannot trust in the directions given by the Commission? How has the Commission in its recent exchange of letters with the Finnish Government taken account of the protocol on navigational policy in our negotiations for membership?
Mr President, I find this debate very depressing because we seem to be covering the same old ground, discussing an issue we have dealt with many times before in this Parliament.
I find it depressing because I was born in a small port town where, at the time, there was a boatyard on practically every corner.
They were wooden boats.
There was a profession, that of boat-builder, which was a proud profession.
I realise that progress is inevitable and that it is not possible for such a profession to be maintained today, but the situation is alarming.
The fact that Europe will end up with no shipbuilding industry is worrying.
It was we Europeans who opened up the world through navigation: the Scandinavians in the North, the Portuguese and Spanish towards America, Africa and Asia, the Dutch, the Danish, the English and the French have sailed all the oceans in ships built on our lands and in our shipyards.
At the moment we live in a globalised economy, which means that rationalisation is needed and that is why a series of restructurings has been undertaken.
However, I believe we are reaching a limit.
Specifically, the disappearance of all types of aid on 31 December 2000 is going to cause a problem.
Although I agree with some of the previous speakers, such as Mrs Kauppi, that it is not good to maintain a subsidy system, in the long run this situation clearly harms the sector itself.
Furthermore, we have been abolishing subsidies in the shipbuilding sector, yet it has continued to fall apart.
At the moment the shipbuilding sector is in tatters.
Wherever you go there is a closed shipyard and thousands of people who have lost their jobs.
For example, since 1984, Astilleros Españoles (Spanish Shipyards) has undergone three restructurings.
Last Wednesday there were worker demonstrations in Spain, in all the shipbuilding cities - Bilbao, Cádiz, Puerto Real, Seville and Asturias - accompanied by a considerable degree of violence, because we are threatening the lives and security of many millions of homes.
There is another problem.
In this globalised economy, it is good that subsidies should disappear, but not when there are some countries which still have them.
This also raises another question - as some speakers such as Mrs McKenna have said: Is it a good thing that some countries such as Korea maintain this policy?
I believe that if we look at the figures properly, it is clear that if ships are sold at less than they cost to make, the country is losing out.
Therefore, that policy harms that country and its workers.
Let us remember that a few years ago the Korean workers took to the streets to ask for equal status.
The general theme of globalisation - as the Commissioner knows - is being discussed at the moment or will be discussed in the World Trade Organisation.
I think that this is one of the questions which should concern us.
The European shipbuilding industry is threatened from all sides.
Some of the speakers - Mrs McKenna herself I believe - have referred to the crisis in the fishing industry.
It appears that the ideal is the destruction of the Community fishing fleet.
For transport - including oil-tanker traffic - there are flags of convenience.
But even the few ships which sail under the European flag have to be manufactured outside Europe, because it appears we are not capable of withstanding distorted competition.
Therefore, on behalf of the Spaniards who at the moment are enormously worried about this issue, I hope that the Commission will communicate our concern to the Council, our disagreement with the latest resolutions of the Council of Ministers for Industry - which seems prepared to adopt a meekly laissez faire approach and abandon the little which remains of the European shipbuilding sector - and our hope that either measures will be taken to prevent the unfair competition which is occurring or, if not, that steps will be taken to restore Community aid to compensate for the cases of inequality, incompetence and bad practice which are occurring today in all shipbuilding centres.
Mr President, to follow on from Mr Medina Ortega, I would like to remind you that the Commission and the Council almost always propose employment plans to the governments. They propose that we fight unemployment and say that we must put an end to unemployment in Europe.
Commissioner, employment plans are not much use if, on the one hand, jobs are constantly being lost in many of our sectors and, specifically, in the sector which we are talking about today, the shipbuilding sector, which involves 300,000 jobs in Europe and around 45,000 in Spain.
This seems to us to be an impossible equation.
If you remove the subsidies to our sector, if the Korean sector continues to be subsidised, if working conditions in Europe are to be as they should be, that is very advanced, and in Korea they are terrible, the equation is impossible.
It is going to be impossible to maintain this sector.
And I do not want this to happen in the future.
In Spain there are seven regions with a shipbuilding sector.
Commissioner, I come from a small region of a million inhabitants.
In recent years, as a result of European policies and the policies of successive governments, we have lost 6,000 direct jobs in the steel industry, 6,000 direct jobs in mining, 10,000 small agricultural businesses, we have lost jobs in the arms industry and we have lost jobs in the shipbuilding industry.
When measures are introduced in the European Union - and I know that what I am going to say is out of fashion with many of my colleagues - much account is taken of the laws of the market and of competitiveness.
The human factor is never, or almost never, taken into account.
And the human factor is fundamental in the European Union.
I am afraid to say, Commissioner, that if we continue to lose jobs in the fundamental sectors of our industry, our institutions will no longer have any credibility.
If the aid stops in December, if aid is maintained in Korea, if in Spain furthermore it is proposed that 18,000 million pesetas of aid, which was granted to the shipbuilding sector, be returned, we are destroying the sector.
Let us not fool ourselves, let us not use rhetoric.
I am very sorry to say this, Commissioner, but if we do not adopt urgent and energetic measures, this sector, as well as other industrial sectors in the European Union, is going to go to ruin, to put it politely.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think we must first congratulate and thank the Commission for the fact that we are today holding this debate on the serious situation of the European shipbuilding industry.
After the Council of Ministers for Industry, on 9 November, and the Commission' s report to Parliament on the situation of the world market in the shipbuilding industry, today we have heard this Commission statement to Parliament, which indicates that there is generalised concern within all the European institutions.
But I agree with Mr Medina Ortega that this should not be a "remake" , because the concern and the measures announced, while significant, do not seem to us to be sufficient at this particular moment.
Although this Parliament totally supports these measures, we ask above all for more urgency, more efficiency and more thoroughness.
Free trade, but also fair trade, because everybody knows about the unfair practices in Korea, which make it impossible for our shipyards to be competitive, as has already been pointed out.
The European Union, Commissioner, with all the political, economic, financial and commercial means at its disposal, must ensure that international rules are obeyed and put an end once and for all to Korean dumping, because the European sector can be viable in an environment of fair competition.
Commissioner, we must also take advantage of the current unity in the European sector - I am referring to employers and unions - which has been shown in recent times and in recent days, to relaunch the European shipbuilding sector.
We have to look for and find a European solution.
Please allow me, Commissioner, to say that I believe that the future of the shipyards in Europe is a political question which requires brave, clear and unequivocal decisions on the part of the Commission of course, but also on all our parts, especially after the conclusions of the latest Council of Ministers for Industry.
The aid which we have talked about today is also an instrument which the Commission must clarify, especially if it is a future strategy erga omnes.
Parliament and European industry must know this as soon as possible, since we believe - and after this debate I believe it too - that while the world markets are not stabilised, transitional protective measures are still necessary.
And we ask for these measures - and I insist - urgently, since many of our shipyards run the serious risk of disappearing, despite being technically and economically viable.
Finally, since I am also from a peripheral region, I would like to mention the enormous impact on regional development which the shipbuilding industry has, since that industry is based in many of these regions, many of them also included in Objective 1 of the European Regional Policy, with very significant shipyards which generate much direct and indirect employment, a social equilibrium which the countries undergoing cohesion need so much, which demands European solidarity.
On their behalf I ask, in the case of the shipbuilding industry, for special consideration within the European Union' s regional and competition policy.
I will conclude, Commissioner.
I believe that Parliament' s message today is one of support for energetic action by the Commission in this field.
Thank you for your statement and for the efforts which the Commission has been making, but do not be afraid to apply measures energetically and urgently, as we have asked you today in the European Parliament.
Mr President, the problem we are discussing is a product of globalisation.
The South Koreans have, in six years, trebled their shipbuilding capacity.
They have not done it with their own money, but with loans.
American loans were pressed on them, and the American banks did this in order that they might receive back the largest possible profits.
Later the South Koreans left these loans, which had been pressed upon them, unpaid.
The debts, however, were guaranteed, so that the International Monetary Fund sent South Korea money to pay off the American banks.
In other words, the IMF has itself contributed to the current situation.
The South Koreans were also advised to devalue their currency, as it was a way for them to free themselves from this economic crisis that we have caused them.
They have devalued their currency by many tens of per cent and, as a consequence, their prices have become more competitive.
They did not have to cut wages to reduce their price competitiveness; they only did what we advised them to do, which was to devalue their currency.
South Korea is thus operating in a world that we have made for them.
All those politicians who are now complaining about the problems South Korea has caused us are wrong if they claim that globalisation is irreversible and that we can do nothing about it.
Globalisation is something which politicians can do nothing about if they do not want to.
If pay in South Korea has gone down from six euros an hour to four euros an hour, it is not the South Koreans who are to blame.
We are to blame, because we caused the economic crisis in South Korea.
Now that crisis is simply spreading from South Korea to our shipyards.
I hope that politicians will show more credibility in this matter and look into the basic causes of the problem, and not just those effects which have been spoken of a good deal here.
We have wanted to ease the effects of the problem, but that will not happen if we do not do anything about its causes.
Mr President, in a debate which is as specific and as objective as this one on European shipbuilding, it is not easy to avoid repetition.
As a matter of fact it is impossible to avoid it, but we are talking about an extremely sensitive political issue and that is why it is important that the Commission and the Council know that there is a broad consensus in Parliament on this matter and great concern to find a solution to the problem.
As Mrs Langenhagen said, the crisis in Europe' s shipbuilding industry has not appeared overnight, but has been with us for more than 25 years.
In fact, as the official statistics available to us show, in the last 20 years this industry has lost four-fifths of the jobs that it had in Europe, which is in fact a huge proportion.
And it is becoming particularly tragic because this massive loss of jobs - in an industry that once employed half a million people - is generally taking place on the periphery of Europe, as you can tell from the nationalities of almost all of the Members who have been speaking here.
And it is on the periphery of Europe that, as we all know, there are the fewest opportunities for employment.
But now, in the current state of play, the situation is becoming particularly unsustainable.
Korea is not the whole problem.
As several Members have pointed out, the Korean problem has occurred as a result of a combination of situations and factors, some within our control and others outside it: there was the Asian crisis, hyper-devaluation by more than 30% of the national currency - the won - and there was the concomitant support from the IMF which led to this unique - I would call it bizarre - situation in which Korea finds itself, not to mention the unfair way it has competed with us in recent times.
But we must not forget that this is also the case with the United States.
The United States, whose propaganda image is as the champion of free trade, of the free market, only takes this position because of what it can gain from it: on the audio-visual industry, on the food industry, on anything that is of interest to them.
But when it comes to other industries, such as this one, they are highly protectionist.
We would do well to keep this in mind!
This Council position must be followed up.
It is indeed important for the Council to take a political stand, but it must be followed up.
I think that it is crucial that the European Union exerts considerable pressure in order to have Korea make a voluntary production agreement in addition to everything that has already been discussed in terms of rules designed to prevent this kind of distortion to competition.
For one thing is essential: it is not just the jobs that Europe could still lose in this industry that are under threat.
The problem is that the shipbuilding industry, covering all the kinds of ships that we have discussed today, is an industry of strategic importance for Europe.
And so, of course, it is undergoing a structural change: the type of ship is going to change certainly, but in an industry of such strategic importance, Europe cannot remain in foreign hands in terms of the building and the supply of these ships.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the opening of a new trade round in which everyone will be talking about free and fair trade, what is happening in the shipbuilding industry is really quite ironic.
And that is why I think that we in the European Union must be prepared to remember this industry in Seattle, because there is no reason why this industry should remain outside the GATT rules.
If this does not happen, if this is globalisation, then there is nothing more to say.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
(The sitting was closed at 11.20 a.m.)
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 19 November 1999.
Tribute
Ladies and gentlemen, many of you are new to this House but I am sure that all the re-elected Members will have a very clear memory of Carmen Díez de Rivera Icaza.
You will remember that she had to resign due to illness. She fought against this illness with great courage but I have to tell you that she died yesterday.
She was a wonderful colleague who opposed conformism and fought for all noble causes, bringing passion to her work and a radiant smile which you all knew.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think about Carmen now and to observe a minute' s silence in her memory.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
Madam President, at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, and as the result of a misunderstanding, there was a public incident between myself and Mrs Díez de Rivera.
I am not going to comment on her political career for you have just done that admirably, but I must highlight, in public before this House, her human qualities, her personal values, her dignity and the fortitude and courage with which she faced her illness right to the very end.
I must also emphasise what she did to overcome a difficult situation between us which ended in a warm and loyal friendship which allowed us to sign initiatives together before this House.
I now feel proud to have been able to put my signature next to hers on those initiatives adopted by this House.
Madam President, I must firstly thank you for your tribute to Carmen.
If the cancer had not beaten her, I can assure you that she would have been here today, in her seat among our Group, in this House.
As I have already told the President, I had the opportunity to visit Carmen in hospital two weeks ago and she asked me to say goodbye to all her colleagues.
In particular, I want to thank two Members, her nephew Íñigo Méndez de Vigo and Paca Sauquillo, for their efforts to help her throughout the long and difficult process of her final days.
I must also say that Carmen Díez de Rivera was a woman with a fascinating personality. She was also an excellent MEP and played an absolutely pivotal role in the history of my country and in its transition to democracy.
I hope that history will one day pay tribute to her for this.
Madam President, as we all know, the terrorist group ETA has decided on a return to criminal activity, the indefinite cessation of which it announced 14 months ago.
As a Basque, I want to humbly, simply but firmly express to this House my feelings regarding the shattering of the hope for peace which the Spanish people and the Basques in particular have clung to throughout this period.
It is tragic to think that there are still people in the European Union today who are helpless in the face of the sectarian violence of a few others and who are having to pay an extremely high price for remaining true to their beliefs in the face of terrorist blackmail.
I therefore ask this House, which represents all the peoples of the European Union, to show its solidarity with the Basque people in defence of the freedom, respect for the law and peaceful coexistence which we have all craved for so long. We have to believe that, through tolerance towards others and a love for life, we will achieve peace.
Finally, I ask you to help personally in ensuring the victory of this desire for peace which all the Spanish people share. Together, we can make this road to peace a reality.
Madam President, on the historic occasion of the convening of the Government of Northern Ireland, there is a certain irony in my taking the floor with good news when our colleague has such problems to report from the Basque area.
But this is a historic occasion for Northern Ireland.
It is just twenty years since my colleague, Joe McCartin, first raised Northern Ireland and our conflict here in this Parliament.
Over the last twenty years thousands have been killed, thousands injured and thousands of families shattered.
Could I ask you to convey to all political leaders in the North of Ireland and, as we say in Ireland, 'across the pond' , to the British Prime Minister and all his colleagues, and indeed to the Irish Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern and to their predecessors, the predecessors on both sides, our sincere thanks for what they have helped to achieve.
Above all, our thanks go to the political leaders in the North of Ireland, all those who are now part of our new executive in the North of Ireland, particularly to the Deputy First Minister, Seamus Mallon, and perhaps I may single out the First Minister, David Trimble, for particular mention. He has shown courage and leadership, which is what politics is all about.
May they have many years and decades of successful democratic politics in the North and could you, and indeed through our colleague here, Jim Nicholson, whom I include in the leadership of the North of Ireland, convey the very best wishes of this Parliament to them all.
Thank you, Mrs Doyle.
I have in fact anticipated your wish. On behalf of this House, I have already written to all the leaders of the major parties in Northern Ireland to express our admiration for what they have achieved and to send them our best and warmest wishes for the favourable continuation of the peace process.
Madam President, coming from Donegal, a border county in the historic province of Ulster, I, like my Irish colleague Mrs Doyle, have a very special appreciation for the progress that has been made in Northern Ireland in the recent past, and in particular the developments of the last few days.
A government has been formed and the transfer of powers and devolution is only hours away.
The courage and perseverance of the political leaders in the North of Ireland, together with the contribution of the Irish Taoiseach, his predecessors, the British Prime Minister and his predecessors, is only to be commended.
And there is one person who has played an integral part in all this, Senator George Mitchell, whose contribution to the peace process is immeasurable.
I also want to wish David Trimble, First Minister, and his Deputy First Minister, Seamus Mallon, their government, the Assembly members and the people of Northern Ireland, peace and prosperity into the next millennium.
I believe that the entire island of Ireland can only benefit from the developments of the last few days.
This Parliament, and I thank you for having sent your good wishes to the respective leaders, has played a very important role in the peace progress.
We have at all times supported the peace process in a positive and practical way through financial support.
Our decisions were taken here unanimously: support for the International Fund for Ireland, support for the peace and reconciliation programme and, of course, Interreg.
While I welcome this Parliament' s contribution, I also want to acknowledge the contribution of the European Commission over the years, and in particular former Presidents, President Delors, our colleague and former President, Jacques Santer, and now President Prodi who, in his statement yesterday, committed himself to the continuation of funds towards the various programmes in Northern Ireland.
Let us all work together for the benefit of those people and hopefully other parts of this continent would look towards Northern Ireland and strive to resolve their problems in a similar way.
Madam President, much has been said, but as a child who grew up in Belfast and spent thirty of my thirty-nine years in the violent conflict in my homeland, I personally want to mark today' s historic occasion.
It is a historic day.
I am deliberately sitting in John Hume' s seat today because, as a Nobel Prize Winner from this Parliament who has devoted his whole life to securing the peace process, I think it is important that we honour him since he is recuperating at home in Northern Ireland.
It is important to say today that the will of the people has been done in Northern Ireland.
71% of the people voted for peace, the politicians on all sides have been big enough to deliver that will of the people for future generations.
I have to say in my case perhaps it was too late.
I left Northern Ireland because there was no future, no jobs, no opportunities for young people, but I am delighted that today the future generations will have those opportunities, and Europe has played a critical role in that process.
Madam President, I want to add my voice to celebrate this historic agreement.
You have already sent a letter conveying our best wishes to the Northern Ireland authorities.
Could you send another letter to invite our Northern Ireland friends, the executive, to pay a visit to the Parliament.
I feel that it is our duty to mention the role that one of our colleagues, Mr John Hume, has played in this process.
He is in better shape after four operations and a long convalescence and I hope that he will be back among us very soon.
Madam President, can I say I am very pleased to accept the glowing tributes paid to my colleagues for the success achieved at the weekend.
I would stress the credit that should be given to my party leader, David Trimble, for his courage and fortitude.
There are very few times you see a political person putting everything on the line.
He put his entire future on the line. I just hope he succeeds.
There is still a long way to go.
Do not be over-enthusiastic, but I have no doubt that he would be delighted.
I will pass on to him the best wishes of this Parliament for the future.
There was a delegation from the European People' s Party in Belfast on Monday who were able to witness the historic happenings on that particular day.
David Trimble expressed his wish and desire to come to Europe again, hopefully in the middle of January, and I would look forward to that happening, as I am sure, Madam President, you will too.
Madam President, may I ask you to take action on an issue which is just as important as those mentioned and which concerns my country, Greece.
As I was preparing my proposal on the Morillon reports yesterday, I was amazed to find in a Parliament document by the Secretariat of the Working Party on Enlargement, from the international and institutional affairs section of DG IV headed by Martine Chariot, the following totally unacceptable reference under point 6 concerning relations between Turkey and the European Union:
It is entitled "The Situation in the Aegean" and the draftsperson of one of our documents, of a European Parliament document, presents the Aegean islands, which are part of Greek territory under international treaties, as a region of disputed sovereignty between Greece and Turkey.
To put it bluntly, Mrs Fontaine, it is akin to describing Alsace and Lorraine to you, a European and French citizen, as regions of disputed sovereignty between France and Germany.
I request, not only for the record and for the sake of historical accuracy, but for material reasons, because you will understand the political significance of such texts, that this unacceptable and extremely dangerous wording be taken out of the document.
Mr Efthymiou, I can promise you that we will look into this very carefully and, if necessary, a correction will be made.
Madam President, we too welcome the peace in Northern Ireland and the new Executive which has been established. We also join Mr Valdivielso in expressing our concern about ETA' s threat to return to violence.
However, I actually asked for the floor in order to join Mr Barón Crespo in expressing my feelings about the loss of Carmen Díez de Rivera.
Instead of referring to her role in the transition to democracy, as my colleague has already admirably done, I want to mention the personal relationship which we enjoyed for six years in the Committee on the Environment.
We too feel her loss greatly.
She worked extensively to defend the Spanish and European environment and her death at such an early age is terrible.
I therefore join Mr Barón Crespo in expressing my feelings of loss.
Madam President, naturally I welcome the start of a hopefully permanent process towards peace in Northern Ireland and Ireland as a whole.
We must applaud the work of all the political leaders who have participated in this process.
I must highlight here and now the historic role played by John Hume who had the foresight, some years ago, to ensure that Sinn Fein and Gerry Adams joined him in the search for a political solution to Ireland' s historic problem.
I must also stress the concern which we all feel about the abandonment of the truce by ETA.
In this respect, I must say that I consider the use of violence to achieve political agreements to be absolutely unacceptable nowadays, whether in Europe or in any other part of the world.
However, a political agreement is now absolutely essential in the Basque Country, as it was in Ireland, and the narrow-mindedness and reactionary attitude of the Spanish Government in refusing to accept a political agreement with the Basque national parties within the peace process is totally unacceptable.
Having said this, the European Parliament, as the highest institution in Europe, should also adopt a position on this issue in order to facilitate a process of political agreement in the Basque Country.
Madam President, I am a Basque and I belong to the Basque Nationalist party.
However, firstly, I congratulate the leaders, political parties, intermediaries and, in particular, the people of Britain and Ireland, on having found a road to peace by all giving ground on their original positions.
I, too, join in the condemnation expressed by this European Parliament with regard to ETA' s abandonment of the truce. I can confirm my total rejection of the use of violence to achieve political aims.
However, I must also say very firmly that we have a problem in the Basque Country for we are in political conflict with the Spanish State.
From this Parliament I call on the Spanish Government and the Spanish political parties to have the same tolerance as the British and Irish so that we can all find the road to peace and a solution to the Basque conflict which is as much a European matter as the Irish conflict.
We Basques want peace and we want to find a lasting solution which is acceptable to everyone.
However, to achieve this, we must all make an effort to find common ground for the future and for peace.
Thank you.
We really cannot start a debate and you must appreciate that all these points of order are turning into one.
Madam President, I too am a Basque and I am also a woman and a Socialist. I am one of the 92% of Basque people who voted in the Basque Country in favour of the Statute of Autonomy and in favour of democracy.
Madam President, there is a democracy in the Basque Country.
There are elections which are free and democratic.
There is a Statute of Autonomy for which the vast majority of Basques voted.
The Basque people and the Basque institutions have risen to the occasion.
Yet, in the Basque Country, there is a terrorist organisation which wants to control our lives, which has returned to blackmail and to which the Basques and all those in favour of democracy have said 'no' .
This is basically all I wanted to say.
Madam President, I would just like to say that it is inadmissible in a democracy to let people of one political persuasion speak about the Basque country and not to allow anyone of a different political persuasion to speak.
That is inadmissible in any Parliament.
It is not a parliament, if that happens.
So I protest very strongly.
I would like to have three minutes, which is a fraction of the length of time this subject has been discussed, just to explain my point of view.
I know many people here are very fond of democracy and the ways of parliamentarism.
Could I speak, Madam President?
No. I really do not think that would be right.
This is not a debate on the issue and you have already spoken for one minute.
We just cannot continue in this way.
This is not a scheduled item on the agenda.
Madam President. You are quite right in what you have just said.
It is, of course, most encouraging to hear different views on this important issue but then, as you see, other Members ask for the floor and we really should turn our attention to the agenda and get down to work.
The Commission is here, Mrs Reding is waiting to report and we really should get down to work.
I particularly agree with you, Mr Poettering, because, in addition to that, I have some information to impart and some delegations to welcome which will all take time.
Madam President, I disagree with the Member except for one point on which he is right.
When three or four people have been allowed to express an opinion, basic democracy would say that another opinion should be allowed, even if they disagree with this.
The representative of a large group cannot be permitted to speak for three minutes while the representative of a small group is refused, even if you disagree with them and even if what this person is going to say is deplorable.
Mr Cohn-Bendit, this is the problem, as well you know, with points of order.
When a Member asks for the floor on a point of order, which they are not always - and you may also have been guilty of this - the President cannot guess what this Member is going to say.
I cannot allow a debate to start.
If I did, then every single group would have to be given the chance to speak.
Madam President, I wish to raise a point of order under Rule 179 dealing with relations with the Ombudsman.
On 29 July this year the Ombudsman wrote to this Parliament on an own-initiative inquiry on his part calling for a code of good administrative behaviour and asking for a response by 30 November.
Up to yesterday, he had not had a reply.
I understand that you have today written to the Ombudsman but I wish to know when the Members of this Parliament are going to have the opportunity to respond to the Ombudsman' s request for comments in his own-initiative inquiry.
Quite right, Mr Perry.
I have in fact signed this letter today.
A draft has been prepared on this matter and is currently being finalised.
I believe that it will be submitted for approval by the Bureau of the European Parliament in December.
I can therefore fully reassure you in this respect.
Welcome
It is my great pleasure, on behalf of the House, to welcome all the Presidents of the Parliaments of the twelve applicant states who are seated in the public gallery.
They are here to participate in the eighth meeting between the Presidents of the national parliaments of the applicant states and this House.
These meetings were started by my predecessors, Klaus Hänsch and José Maria Gil-Robles.
We worked very hard yesterday and they will be leaving us in a few moments to continue this work which has proved extremely fruitful in terms of our common goal to unite our extensive European family.
I therefore welcome them very warmly.
We also have a delegation from the Estonian Parliament led by its President, Mr Tunne Kelam. I must emphasise the role which the joint parliamentary committee is playing in the current negotiations which should also lead to Estonia' s accession to the European Union.
I welcome you very warmly.
(Applause)
Statement by the President
Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities gave a ruling on 25 November which, in the action brought by Mr Martinez and Mr De Gaulle against the European Parliament, closes for the time being the interim proceedings started by these Members.
In this ruling, the President of the court ordered that the Act of the European Parliament of 14 September 1999 adopting the interpretation proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Rule 29 of Parliament' s Rules of Procedure should be set aside.
The effect of this order is that the mixed Technical Group of Independent Members is permitted to exist and is acknowledged as a political group in every respect.
With regard to parliamentary activity, the TDI Group shall immediately enjoy all rights accorded by the Rules of Procedure to duly constituted political groups. With regard to finance and administration, this group has the right to sufficient staffing to enable it to function and to the appropriations allocated to political groups according to the current scale.
At its meeting this morning, the Bureau of the European Parliament took the necessary steps to ensure that the provisions of the aforementioned order are correctly applied.
It is quite clear that these provisions are of a provisional nature pending the final judgement of the Court of First Instance on this case.
The Bureau has also decided to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market whether an appeal should be lodged with the Court of Justice against the order.
I have one final piece of information.
Mrs Britt Theorin, chairman of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, has taken an initiative with which I personally fully agree. She has sent all male MEPs a letter encouraging them to wear a white ribbon as a sign of their public commitment not to perpetrate violence or to excuse or remain silent about violence against women.
I believe that we can very heartily encourage this initiative.
Agenda
The Community and sport
The next item is the Commission communication on preserving current sports structures and the social function of sports in a Community framework, the Community support scheme for the campaign against drugs in sport and Commission participation in the World Anti-Doping Agency.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important time for sport in Europe because it is now firmly on the agenda.
This has come about quite simply because sport is a popular phenomenon.
Europe is responsible for its people and must therefore look after and preserve what is good in sport and try to solve the problems which arise.
You may remember that, in Mr Prodi' s inaugural speech to this House, he spoke of the new Commission' s desire to be on close terms with the people and, in this context, he emphasised the importance of fighting the scourge of drugs.
This is now being achieved. The first stone has been laid today of a structure which will be built to ensure that fair play once again becomes an integral part of sport.
The anti-doping campaign will be in two stages.
Firstly, the Commission has helped to set up the World Anti-Doping Agency.
This was not easy, to say the least.
In fact, it was very complicated, but we fought hard and finally achieved this goal.
I have been appointed by the Commission to negotiate with the Council and the President of the International Olympic Committee, Mr Samaranch, to ensure that this new anti-doping agency is established on a sound basis.
What is this basis?
Firstly, it must be transparent and independent.
Secondly, it must equally represent the worlds of sport and government. Thirdly, all its members worldwide must make solemn the commitment to implement the decisions taken by the agency in their own area.
Finally, this agency clearly must be responsible for drawing up the list of banned products, monitoring the laboratories, setting up control systems, establishing out-of-competition tests and enforcing the law.
This last item involves combating the gangs which sell banned products. The agency must also be responsible for prevention so that young people dissociate themselves psychologically and actively from the scourge of drugs.
Madam President, I can inform you that the decision makers of the IOC have listened to both the Council and the Commission.
Europe' s demands have been entered word for word in the statutes of the new agency and, on 10 November, these statutes were signed.
In future we will have two representatives on the board of this agency, as will the Council of Europe.
Furthermore, the latter asked us to negotiate on its behalf, so we negotiated not just for the European Union but also for the Council of Europe.
It is due to the actions of Europe that this agency has come into being.
Whether or not it succeeds in its mission no longer depends on us, as we will be but two of thirty to forty partners.
We must take the fight forward together and jointly establish the foundations for an anti-doping campaign.
We have done our best in this first step and the next steps must be taken together with our worldwide partners.
We do not have total freedom of movement to make this world agency succeed although we will do everything in our power to ensure this happens, but the other partners must be in agreement. We have therefore decided at the same time to draw up a European plan of action against doping in which we will be totally free to meet our obligations.
This plan of action was decided upon this morning by the Commission, bringing together several Commissioners, each responsible for their own area.
The Research Commissioner will use the basic or applied research programmes of the Fifth Framework Research programme, as well as other options, in the anti-doping campaign in order to reinforce the means available to this campaign.
The Education and Youth Commissioner will allow the Socrates, Leonardo and Youth programmes to be used for providing training and establishing cooperation between young people so that the anti-doping campaign becomes something that is sought after by European youth.
The Health Commissioner will ensure that the existing directives, for example, on labelling of medicines for human use, are also developed in terms of anti-doping.
He has also promised to submit a recommendation covering all the issues of public health, health of young sportspeople and health of sportspeople in general for wide-ranging and concerted action by the Member States in the campaign against doping.
On the enforcement side, the Commissioner responsible for third pillar issues, namely internal policies, will use existing plans and programmes to make the forces of law and order aware of this anti-doping campaign.
Madam President, you know that from next year, at both world and European level, we are going to make the anti-doping campaign a spearhead of our sports policy.
We also have a second plan.
During the Vienna Summit, the governments asked us to submit for the Helsinki Summit a document on sport as an element of society, or social sport.
This House, on 17 December last year I believe, adopted a resolution on this same subject.
We are about to fulfil our mandate because the Commission has decided to submit a plan concerning a communication on preserving current sports structures and the social function of sports in the Community framework.
It is clear that the Commission and the EU have no legal basis for starting to lay down regulations.
We will not do this, because we do not have the power to do this.
However, in all the political areas where we do have a legal basis we will use the existing means to work for sport.
I can give you a very specific example.
In the Structural Funds, a significant part of the money can be allocated to projects in favour of sport.
We also need a new approach with regard to the people of Europe.
The Commission does not want to appear to be shut off in its ivory tower devising regulations to impose on the good people.
Absolutely not.
We believe that our role is to find a consensus between those who, in the Member States, have political responsibility and those who, in the world of sport, have responsibility for organising sport.
We are all going to get round a table to discuss, listen and find out what is not working and propose solutions which respect the independence of sports federations and the subsidiarity implemented in our fifteen Member States.
Before then we will start to look at the benefits and obstacles to sport in European legislation.
For example, some practices have nothing to do with the rules on competition.
Therefore, the fact that a football team has eleven players has nothing to do with competition.
This aspect is completely outside the area of competition.
There are also practices which are, in principle, prohibited under the rules on competition.
For example, if, during a major championship, tickets are sold only to nationals and sales to non-nationals or other European citizens are refused, this contravenes the rules on competition and positive action must be taken against this.
However, where there is an apparent conflict with the rules on competition but the sports federations undertake in their actions to use the funds raised to bring education and social action to sport, some practices are then likely to be exempted from the rules on competition.
I can give you a specific example of this.
Some federations have up to now collectively sold audiovisual rights.
If this monopoly action only benefits the business world, it is clear that this comes under business.
However, if the money raised is distributed to the clubs which provide education and training to youngsters, this action is in the collective interest and an exemption from the rules on competition is allowed.
I have briefly explained how we will act in the future with regard to the new sports policy to be introduced.
From next year, a wide-ranging dialogue will be held with all the federations, large or small, and the politicians in our Member States so that together we can decide how to 'regulate' . The aim will not be to draw up new rules but to establish barriers and safeguards so that everything is clear.
We must work together in the interests of our young people, fair play and the commitment of sport to society in its fight against racism and xenophobia. Sport must be positive and accessible.
This is something we all want but which is rarely the case at the moment.
I have a question for the Commissioner.
In order to combat doping, there is one thing which we must do as a European Union. This is to fight against the over-commercialisation of sport which has led to a threefold increase in competitions.
This is the reason for all the doping.
While the Tour de France and the Giro d' Italia are as long as they are, and there are three matches per week for professional football teams, drugs will be used.
While sport and the number of competitions are left unregulated, drugs will be used.
If we do not do our duty by preparing a European directive on the protection of sportspeople, including professionals, we will not be tackling the root causes of doping.
The Member is absolutely right.
I have discussed this with many professional sportspeople and the main reason they give for being virtually forced to take drugs is exactly the reason given by Mr Cohn-Bendit.
However, he should know that, without a legal basis to prepare a directive on sport, we cannot act in the way he wishes.
The only thing we can do, in this round table with the federations, is ask them to bring good sense into play and to re-establish the prestige of sport.
Given the equal representation of the worlds of sport and government in the World Anti-Doping Agency and given all those who will sit on the board of this agency - all the federations and all the National Olympic Committees - who have all undertaken to implement, in their own area, the decisions taken by the agency, there is real hope.
If the agency were to adopt a directive, for example, so that sporting events could be returned to a scale which was humanly possible for sportspeople, this would be a major step forward, but I cannot go further than I am authorised.
It will be up to the agency to act in this respect.
However, I can tell the honourable Member that the European authorities will work in this direction.
Madam President, first of all I want to welcome the communication from Commissioner Reding.
It must not be forgotten that sport in Europe was born of the oldest known truce, namely the sacred truce which gave rise to the Olympics.
This means that it also has a political value of peace.
Hundreds of thousands of young people, both male and female, start and develop their education through sport.
I have a question concerning the last comment made by the Commissioner.
In addition to being a social and training activity, sport is currently part of the world of big business and is actually one of the most important business activities.
My question is as follows: Does the Commission intend the policy which must be developed on sport, particularly in view of the concentration of power which is occurring in the audiovisual media, to lead to a joint action between her Directorate-General and the one responsible for defending competition?
I believe that this is one of the key questions for Europe and the world.
. (FR) Madam President, this is a very complex question and the answer can only be given once dialogue has been held between the worlds of politics and sport.
We are keen to see order restored and balance re-established in sport and to ensure that sport as fair play and true competition regains its prestige.
This will not be easy as this is an enormous task, but I believe that, with the help of politicians and through public assistance and pressure, we can achieve these goals.
It is also very clear that we can act on sport only in its social and educational aspects.
When sport becomes a purely business matter, there can be no exceptions.
Sport will, at this point, be dealt with like any other business activity.
That is plain and clear.
It is only when sport fulfils an important social function that we can give it a helping hand in order to restore order.
Sport as a business will be regarded and dealt with like any other business.
Madam President, Mrs Reding, allow me to congratulate you on your initiative on the issue of doping.
We can only hope that you will make some proper headway with the people who always make out that they would fight doping.
I think we are on the right track and I wish you luck.
However, I would like to come back to what my colleague, Mr Cohn-Bendit said.
We cannot legislate because, as you said, there is no legal basis in the Treaty.
As you know, in my 1996 report, I called, on behalf of Parliament, for sport to be included in the Treaty at long last.
We wanted it to have its own line in Article 128 - under culture.
But we failed.
There is something like a declaration attached to the Treaty, but it is not enough to prevent our having to ask ourselves every year when we debate the budget, should we or should we not fund sport?
I think that if what you have said, if what you submit to the Council in Helsinki is to make sense, then we must conclude that the European Parliament is not confined to making statements on Bosman judgements or competition issues in sport, but can give sport a true value by paying more than mere lip service to it in the Treaty.
Only then will we be able to do what my colleague Mr Cohn-Bendit said, only then will we be able to use the budget to give constructive support to cross-border sporting events.
I urge you from the bottom of my heart to persuade your colleagues at the Commission to take a real step forward with the Council in Helsinki by including a sub-section on sport in the Treaty.
Only then will we be able to make any real progress on this issue!
Madam President, Mrs Pack has spoken from the heart.
Unfortunately, she is right.
My life would be far easier if I were able to construct a sports policy on the basis of an article in the Treaty.
But, unfortunately, I have no such facility.
Only the Intergovernmental Conference could give me this facility if they were to sit down and include an article on sport in the Treaty.
Could, if etc. etc.
Will it happen?
I hope so, I pray so, I dream so.
But, as things stand, I can only say that most governments are against an article on sport in the Treaty, although there are governments which want to move in this direction.
I would like to see Parliament extend its lobbying activities on sport by helping and convincing the various governments to vote for a legal basis for sport in the Treaty similar to, and this would be most satisfactory for the purposes of subsidiarity, the legal basis for culture.
That would make our life much easier, but it is just wishful thinking and pie in the sky.
Madam President, although I welcome the Commissioner' s statement, there is a contradiction in what she has just said.
She answered Mr Cohn-Bendit' s question by saying that she has no legal basis to act against this over-professionalisation of sport. Yet, in answer to the question of Mr Barón Crespo, she said that she intends to act when it is a matter of business.
The EC Treaty gives the Commission very few means of proposing directives, but it is clear that organisations such as the Tour de France, the Giro d' Italia, the Tennis Masters and many others are pure business.
These are profit-making activities and, seen from this perspective, the Commission could therefore at least try to regulate the sector and its working conditions to a certain extent. As Mr Cohn-Bendit very rightly said, if sportspeople take drugs, it is because the competitions require this.
. (FR) I must clarify my words, Madam President.
I never said that I will not act when sport becomes commercial, in fact I said the contrary.
I said that when sport is a purely economic and business activity, this is when the rules on competition will fully apply to prevent any deviations in sport.
I will indeed act when sport, as a social activity, is threatened by the rules on competition.
This is when the Commission will be ready to introduce corrective measures.
We know full well that sport is being blown off course on account of its business aspect.
This is why we must help sport at the level which is of interest to all the people of Europe, not just as entertainment, but also as an educational activity, promoting solidarity between people, both young and old, and also between the various nations.
At this point we can do something.
When sport is a business, it must be regarded like any other business in Europe.
Commissioner, I must firstly congratulate you on the promotion of sports issues within the Commission.
As you have just said, sport has a very important place in daily life in Europe and must therefore be afforded this same status in the European Parliament, as Mr Prodi said in his inaugural speech.
Congratulations are also in order for your work in setting up the World Anti-Doping Agency. However, as a sportswoman, I must also ask that, as well as taking the positive step of imposing strict rules on athletes with regard to doping, we should listen to them and put their interests above economic and business interests.
This has not always been the case to date.
Furthermore, it seems that the Council wants to eliminate the budget heading on sport at second reading.
As a sportswoman, a European citizen and a Member of this House, I must very firmly indicate my disagreement with this Council proposal. Also, what steps is the Commission intending to take to ensure that sport has a budget in the European Union, so that we can work from here for European sport?
. (FR) I made an appeal to this House for all the sportspeople who are Members to help me develop a proper sports policy which is robust, realistic and productive.
Of course, if we have some great champions in this House, which we do, I thank them in advance for giving me a hand.
I fully understand the frustration at not being able to do more.
Believe me, I am the first to be frustrated because, if I had a legal basis, I could demand a budget. I could, together with this House, press forward and develop programmes for our youngsters and for our sportspeople.
Unfortunately, I have no legal basis.
Without this, I will have no budget heading.
I am therefore forced to be creative, to innovate and to find sources other than direct sources.
This is why our anti-doping plan intends to use all the policies which, in one way or another, can help to fight this scourge, such as research, health, education and the third pillar.
I would like nothing more than to escape from this impasse. So if this House can persuade the governments of the Fifteen, during the Intergovernmental Conference, to introduce an article into the EC Treaty allowing us to establish a proper sports policy, I will be the first to cheer and applaud.
Thank you, Commissioner, and ladies and gentlemen.
The debate is closed.
Preparation of European Council of 10-11 December 1999 in Helsinki
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the European Council of 10 and 11 December 1999 in Helsinki.
Without any further delay, I give the floor to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Halonen.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union' s Heads of State and Government will shortly be gathering in Helsinki with a very busy agenda in front of them.
First of all, I would like to congratulate the Finnish Presidency on all the hard work and careful planning it has put into preparing this European Council.
Thanks to these efforts, the Summit will, I am sure, be a great success.
One of the main items on the agenda at Helsinki will, of course, be enlargement.
In the composite paper issued last month, the Commission argued strongly for the need to maintain the momentum of reform in the candidate countries.
These countries have already made considerable efforts in order to meet, with time, the Copenhagen criteria.
Our task is now to reward their great efforts in such a way as to encourage further progress while dispelling complacency.
If we fail to give our recognition, some of these countries may become disillusioned and turn their backs on us: their economies would start to diverge, progress towards democracy and respect for human rights may mark time and an historic opportunity will have been lost, perhaps forever.
This is why we need a swift but surefooted accession process, and I certainly hope the Helsinki Summit will adopt the accession strategy we recommended in October and will decide, provided the necessary conditions are met, to start accession negotiations next year with Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Romania and Slovakia.
What I am hoping to see emerge from Helsinki, therefore, is a fully flexible, multi-speed accession process under which negotiations with each of the twelve candidate countries proceed in parallel with its political and economic progress.
This system, which has been compared to a regatta, allows each country to move at its own pace, be assessed on its own merits and join when it is finally able to meet all the obligations of membership.
I hope that the European Council will grant Turkey the official status of a candidate country.
Clearly, accession negotiations cannot be opened with Turkey until it meets the Copenhagen political criteria, with their clear emphasis on human rights, respect for minorities and complete religious freedom.
I, too, in this respect, would remind you of what the Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs said about the serious Öçalan case.
However, by granting it candidate status, we would be giving Turkey a definite incentive to continue moving in the right direction.
Another important item on the agenda at Helsinki will, of course, be the Intergovernmental Conference which must carry out the institutional reforms needed to prepare the EU for enlargement.
I hope the Summit will agree to launch this conference very soon, because the enlargement process will be beginning in about three years' time and it will continue, uninterrupted, for a good few years after that.
In practice, this means the necessary reforms must be in place by the end of 2002 if we are to be ready on schedule.
Therefore, since a long time is needed for ratification, our time is short.
What are the necessary institutional reforms?
The major ones were outlined in the conclusions of the Cologne Summit and discussions on their scope began with the report I commissioned from Mr Dehaene, Mr Von Weizsäcker and Lord Simon.
Parliament has tabled contributions, as has the Commission in the document we issued on 10 November The Presidency is due to report its findings to the European Council.
I believe there is a growing agreement among us on the question of which reforms are needed.
First, there are the issues specifically referred to at Amsterdam, namely the number of Commissioners, the representation of Member States in the Council and the extension of qualified majority voting.
These three issues are, in any case, interrelated.
Secondly, there are matters arising from those issues. For example, enlargement will have an impact on all the other European institutions and bodies, such as the Court of Justice and, indeed, this House which, as new Member States join, will have to make room for up to 700 representatives, and not more than 700.
Furthermore, the codecision procedure will have to be extended to legislation for which qualified majority voting itself has already been extended.
Finally, there are matters for which preparatory work is to be done outside the IGC but which might, towards the end of the conference, be included in the Treaty or affect it in one way or another.
I am thinking, for example, of specific issues: firstly, discussions on security and defence. The European Council will adopt important decisions in this field and on the management of the non-military aspects of international crises.
The Commission has been closely involved in the policy-making process, as a result of which new operational structures will be set up. They will enable us to travel further along the route towards integration, already traced in Cologne.
I welcome these important developments and I undertake to do all I can at Helsinki to help bring them about and to ensure that they are consistent with the EU's institutional framework.
The Commission intends to commit itself to fully implementing the decisions adopted by the Heads of State and Government, particularly the decisions on procedures for providing assistance during international crises.
Implementation will involve not only providing financial assistance, which must be guaranteed, but also sending experts to carry out emergency work on the ground.
This will call for our services to put a lot of effort into its organisation and management. These are certainly issues that cannot be ignored.
More generally, I would like to point out that a common foreign and security policy requires the creation of a European defence industry that can compete efficiently in both technological and financial terms.
The Commission intends to promote this by using all the instruments at its disposal relating to the internal market, commercial and competition policies. I am in favour of the changes that are now taking place.
Then there is the work begun at Tampere on drafting a Charter of Fundamental Rights and the possible restructuring of the Treaty, separating its basic, essential texts from its implementing provisions. This would make the essential texts simpler to read and allow the less essential ones to be amended via a less cumbersome procedure.
I do not underestimate the difficulties, both technical and political. As a first step, the Commission will ask academic experts to carry out a detailed feasibility study on this project.
In this respect, I intend to ask the European University Institute of Florence - which has specialists in this subject from all European countries - to study this matter.
Once this has been done we shall have to carefully consider how to proceed with this idea.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all these issues must be tackled if our institutions are to function effectively in an enlarged European Union. Above all, it is essential that we scale down the number of decisions that still have to be taken unanimously.
Maintaining unanimous voting will result either in complete paralysis or in everything being reduced to the lowest common denominator, a luxury we cannot afford in today' s world, where immediate action is called for in areas of vital importance to the European Union' s future.
Finally, one more example: trade talks are beginning in Seattle, and the EU must punch its full weight in these negotiations.
In the wake of the Tampere Summit, the Heads of State and Government are including justice and home affairs as a priority area.
The European tax package is now in great difficulty. Yet it is not only an important initiative to combat harmful tax competition but also an essential aspect of our employment strategy.
If we continue to burden our jobs with taxes, as we have done until now, our employment policy will certainly be contradictory.
On all these three fronts, Europe is handicapped by the unanimity requirement. It is like a soldier trying to march with a ball and chain around one leg.
I hope that Helsinki, by launching the reform process, will clearly show we have the ambition and the political will to rid ourselves of this encumbrance and to tackle the other crucial issues before us.
The European Parliament will, of course, be fully involved in the IGC.
The European Union exists for its citizens, whom you represent, and the reforms we are planning must serve their interests.
That is why I look forward to seeing this House play a key role in the reform process and in building the enlarged Europe of tomorrow.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Helsinki Summit on 10 and 11 December is highly significant for Europe in the 21st century in general and for the European Union in particular.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, we wholeheartedly welcome the decision to start negotiations with Latvia and Lithuania and with Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta.
I hope that it will become clear when we embark on discussions with the three Baltic states that the security of these three states is in good hands in the European Union.
I have held discussions with representatives from these three countries over the past few days.
They are most concerned at Russia' s behaviour in Chechnya and by opening negotiations with Latvia and Lithuania, rather than just Estonia, as we did at the beginning, we are sending out the right signal and the Baltic states will know that they belong to our Community and will soon enjoy the security which membership of the European Union brings.
We in the PPE-DE group take Turkey seriously and we make no secret of the fact.
We always were, and continue to be, Turkey' s friend.
We were the group in the European Parliament which pressed, before anyone else, for Customs Union.
But, there is also a strong minority in our group which does not share the majority view.
The majority of the group takes the view that, if Turkey becomes a member of the European Union, and we must be clear on this, then the European Union will take on a different political, economic and cultural quality.
I know, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that you have been highly committed in the past to monitoring and discussing the Kurdish problem and you know full well to what I refer.
I would urge the other groups, if we are to subscribe to this compromise text as a European defence policy, to accept a motion for a long-overdue debate on the geographical enlargement of the European Union.
We are waiting for the Council of Ministers to nail its colours to the mast and tell us exactly what the geographical enlargement of the European Union will look like.
That will give us plenty to debate over coming weeks and months.
Then there is the Intergovernmental Conference: Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I have every confidence that you will succeed in making it clear in Helsinki that we do not intend to confine ourselves to the three Amsterdam leftovers.
Obviously, the extension of majority voting is crucial.
But it is also crucial for the European Parliament to be given codecision powers on all matters decided by majority vote in the Council of Ministers.
If we, as a European Union, want a place in the global economy and on the increasingly globalised political scene, then we must make up our minds to give the European Union a legal capacity so that representatives of the European Union can act on behalf of the European Union.
At the moment the European Union is a non-starter.
It cannot even buy a house.
These are the facts and this is the root of the problem.
There are numerous other issues too.
What worries me is this, and I would ask you to take this very seriously in the Council of Ministers and in the Commission: the European Union can only be enlarged subject to certain conditions.
I am a passionate advocate of enlargement because, having shaken off Communism, the countries of Central Europe have a right to join our community of values.
However, and I am equally resolute on this point, if there is a danger that enlargement will lead to the break up or the dilution of the European Union in the sense that, in the end, we will merely be an economic and financial institution and not a political union, if this is the danger which enlargement holds, then we should say no to enlargement.
What I mean is that we need to make reforms first.
I can only urge the Council of Ministers to make every effort to give this Intergovernmental Conference a comprehensive mandate and to ensure that the European Parliament' s two representatives are allowed to attend the conference on equal terms.
We are debating defence policy, an issue which we have supported here in Parliament for decades.
We need European defence.
But when we talk of European defence, we also mean practical measures.
For example, I am most worried by the cuts in defence spending in my country. In other words, we will not achieve what we say we want to achieve and that really would be a pity.
Talking about European defence and including European defence in the Treaties makes no sense if we put no flesh on the bones, which is why it is important to put flesh on the bones, to create the capacities, but without standing in opposition to our American partners and our allies in the USA.
We do not want to oppose America, we want to stand on an equal footing and we want to act in partnership.
If we take this approach, the western alliance also stands to gain.
(Applause)
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I hope that Mrs Halonen will have time, before the Summit, to read our motion for a resolution on this Summit, together with the report on the Intergovernmental Conference which we approved in November. I am saying this because I missed some of her thoughts on certain points which are absolutely vital in our opinion.
We are certainly now facing an historic challenge in terms of advancing and consolidating the Union and reorganising it in order to cope with enlargement.
My colleague, Mr Hänsch, will talk specifically about enlargement in detail.
I will restrict myself to the over-enlargement caused by our relationship with Turkey.
I can say that the Socialist Group is unanimous on this.
We do believe it is advisable to adopt a positive position with regard to Turkey.
However, firstly, Turkey must show willing.
It cannot just expect and it is therefore vital how it acts in the Öçalan case.
Secondly, a plan of action must be prepared.
Returning to the very balanced position of this House on the Intergovernmental Conference, the Council must not adopt a low-key approach to this issue.
Enlargement is a major political ambition and we have to know how to respond to this. We cannot simply say that there are some reforms to be made on a few remaining points or that this is an issue to be resolved only in terms of costs.
We have to be capable of providing the major political impetus needed for this process.
I also place great importance on something which has hardly been mentioned. We are carrying out a parallel exercise of constitutionalising the Treaties, by preparing a Charter of Fundamental Rights, at the same time as planning the Intergovernmental Conference.
We have an obligation to our fellow citizens - and note that the President-in-Office of the Council comes from a Nordic country which is always boasting about transparency - to achieve a transparent process in which this House is duly represented. I would like Mrs Halonen to reject the view expressed that the Council Presidency is opposed to full representation of the European Parliament, with two representatives, at the Intergovernmental Conference.
We must also explain to our political forces, to our national MPs and to our people, why we are holding the IGC, why we want a Charter of Fundamental Rights, why we want enlargement and why we have the responsibility of ensuring that the Community operates as a community.
On defence there is one point about which I am very pleased. The President-in-Office of the Council, who comes from a tradition of neutrality, has become an expert on security and defence.
She is to be congratulated on this.
Finally, I must refer to the absolutely fundamental issue of growth, stability and employment.
This is an issue on which the line taken in Luxembourg, and then in Cardiff, Cologne and Helsinki, must be consolidated at the next Summit under the Portuguese Presidency. We realise that, to have a prosperous future in the Union, we must be capable of being more competitive and generating more economic growth, but with the emphasis on employment and social cohesion which are, and must be, our first priorities.
These are the challenges which my group wants the Helsinki Summit to respond to in a positive manner.
Mr President, the President of the Council says that she always appreciates the trips she makes to the Parliament, so it is rather extraordinary that she failed during her speech to respond to any of the proposals of Parliament for the IGC. This rather reinforces the press reports, which give cause for concern, that the European Council has chosen a narrow agenda for the IGC and a merely voluntary charter.
If that is so, it says a lot about the way the Union is squaring up for the challenge of enlargement.
An IGC that failed to amend the way the treaties can be revised in future and in policy sectors to soften them would be an IGC that threatened to paralyse the Union when it tries to modernise itself following the accession of new Member States.
An IGC that failed to grant the citizen improved access to the European Court means a charter will be more of a public relations exercise than a powerful re-definition of European citizenship.
And a Union that is frightened to reinforce its liberal and parliamentary character will be an unattractive Union for the acceding Member States and an unreliable player upon the world stage.
Where Europe stops should not be a question of geography but of liberal values and democratic practices, clearly defined and brightly illuminated so that the candidate countries know where the European journey will bring them.
Mr President, we have heard a great deal about this new enlargement strategy, which Mr Prodi has also proposed to us in the past.
Some aspects of it are appealing and sound, some are threatening.
Mr Prodi was not in the least convincing when it came to the following question: is political unification the price for the new strategy?
We are particularly worried about this.
We are worried that this strategy will somehow lead to a twin-track Europe - i.e. the 15 versus the rest - and that many aspects of unification are being sidelined.
The second reason this worries us is on account of the Intergovernmental Conference: there is an air of vagueness and stubbornness about it and its narrow agenda only addresses procedural issues.
What about the political issues, what we might call the intergovernmental economic management of EMU, Mr President; in other words, what about political intervention?
What about the common policy on unemployment, or on employment for that matter?
Are these not issues which are relevant to unification, issues which concern the very people from whom the Union is apparently distancing itself?
The third issue is Turkey.
Do the Council and the Commission know exactly what Turkey wants?
We are convinced by numerous declarations that some people in Turkey just want 'symbolic recognition' , purely for internal reasons, and do not take their future in Europe seriously.
That is no good to anyone, either in Europe or in Turkey.
If we want to make ourselves clear and if we want to stop bandying words and leading Turkey up the garden path, then we should send it a signal which says that, of course, Turkey will not be discriminated against, that goes without saying; however, we need to be clear as to what Turkey' s future within Europe will actually entail.
We need a material policy which Turkey can verify and which allows it to head along the right path: the path towards the rule of law, good neighbourliness and peaceful coexistence, as well as towards a withdrawal from military operations everywhere, especially in Cyprus and on the Kurdish question.
Mr President, all Members of the European Union can take solace from the fact that the European Union economy is performing well and that we have permanent democratic structures operating in all our respective jurisdictions.
This is not the case for all countries in Europe at this time and that is why I welcome the efforts of the Finnish Government to pursue the adoption of a strategy on the Western Balkans at the forthcoming Helsinki Summit.
A permanent stabilisation of the region is in the interests of the European Union as a whole.
The European Union and the Member States together constitute the most important donors in the region and besides humanitarian aid, the region has received this year EU aid amounting to EUR 2,100 m.
We support democratic change in Yugoslavia and the European Union has rightly started to implement pilot projects based on the energy-for-democracy initiative.
EU enlargement will be another central theme at the Helsinki Summit.
During the Finnish Presidency, accession negotiations have been opened in respect of seven more chapters of talks.
These concern EMU, social policy and employment, the free movement of capital, the free movement of services, taxation, energy, transport, all of which are very demanding social and economic sectors.
I am particularly pleased to see that the chapter dealing with energy has now commenced.
I say this because the safety of nuclear plants in Eastern and Central Europe has been a cause for great concern in recent years, and will continue to be.
The Union cannot hide from the naked fact that the EU itself, together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, will have to play a key role in terms of financial contributions and technical support to make safe all these nuclear reactors sooner rather than later.
We all know that the enlargement process cannot take place unless there is some internal reform in the decision-making processes within the EU.
The Presidency is independently preparing a comprehensive report on questions to be examined at the IGC and on the various options for resolving them.
The deadline being set down for the next IGC is very ambitious indeed.
I support working towards reaching agreement by the end of next year, but equally we must not, and should not, hurry possible fundamental reforms to existing EU treaties without due consideration and evaluation.
Mr President, I am, of course, only speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members.
We understand that the Council is disgracefully preparing to exclude the European Parliament from the Intergovernmental Conference and, above all, that it is preparing to ensure that the conference will only tackle three items related to the improvement of the functioning of the institutions, thereby leaving that incomprehensible house of cards known as the Treaty of the Union entirely intact.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, today the Union is an institution which does not respect the minimum parameters of democracy and the Rule of Law, and for us Radicals, European federalists, advocates of the United States of Europe as envisaged by Altiero Spinelli, it is difficult to consider the minor - and they really are minor - reforms on the agenda as real progress.
Of course, we are utopians and you are realists, such realists that the Berlin Wall has been down for ten years, and ten years on we are still unable to enlarge eastwards, just as we were unable to intervene to stop the genocide, first in Bosnia and then in Kosovo.
This is because the European Union' s strength is increasingly bureaucratic power, a pervasive bureaucracy that desires to take control of everything, under the ideological illusion that the law and the parliamentary process are obstacles that needlessly slow down reform.
I believe that Parliament should not be satisfied with just asking to participate in proceedings at the conference, such as the work on drafting a Charter of Fundamental Rights, but that it should demand the right to be able to act as a real parliament and it should demand that its right to decide independently on its own seat be restored at the Intergovernmental Conference so that it is not forced to work with its secretariat spread between three different locations.
This could be a first tangible step towards allowing Parliament to be a real parliament.
In fact, there is no doubt about the agenda for the Summit.
It will be planning the Intergovernmental Conference with a view to the enlargement of the European Union.
A drastic extension to the Union' s powers is on the agenda.
These are the crucial building blocks for a United States of the European Union, that is to say for a real federal State.
There is one significant point I want to concentrate on in my speech, namely the Commission' s remark in its contribution for the Summit to the effect that, if the political will is sufficiently strong, it will be possible to conclude the planned Intergovernmental Conference successfully before the end of the year 2000.
One wonders whose political will are we talking about?
Earlier, I heard one speaker say that we must be careful not to lose our citizens.
Yes, but is that not putting the cart before the horse?
Is it not our citizens who govern our society, or is it ourselves, sitting here and fashioning democracy?
What kind of absurdity is this?
If the people of Europe were to be asked whether they wanted the kind of empire-building that is on the agenda, extremely different answers would be obtained.
We have asked this question in Denmark, for example.
On the few occasions we did ask the people - and we also asked the French people in 1992 - we received an answer indicating very serious public reservations about such a development.
But our citizens are not being asked, and my advice to this Intergovernmental Conference, before the empire-building gets too well under way, is: ask the people of Europe whether they want developments to take this course.
I personally am sure of the answer.
This is something they do not want.
We have already lost our citizens, as may be very clearly seen from the results and the turnout at the last elections to this Parliament.
Mr President, numerous aspects of enlargement have been raised, together with the economic, social and democratic implications.
I am certain that all these issues will be resolved in the medium or long term.
But one problem calls for immediate resolution.
I refer to the closure of high-risk nuclear reactors.
An accident would affect the whole of Europe and the longer these reactors are working the greater the likelihood of total meltdown.
It is therefore imperative that binding arrangements for the decommissioning of high risk reactors be agreed before accession negotiations begin.
Allow me to give you just one example of the nuclear policy of an applicant country: Slovakia' s technocrats and bureaucrats promised under the Communist regime to decommission Bohunice in the year 2000.
Obviously they recognised the risk.
Now, no-one knows anything about any such promise.
Just as past promises have not been honoured, there is a danger, if guaranteed decommissioning is not demanded in advance, that they will once again be forgotten.
Mr President, Mrs Halonen, Mr Prodi, we Finns know that we do not give thanks when there are good grounds for doing so, but we are quick to criticise.
I will surprise the Finnish representatives of the country to hold the presidency by saying that the Finnish Presidency can already now be termed, in the positive sense, historic.
At the Summit conference in Tampere, we included internal and police affairs among Community issues in an attempt to increase citizens' security.
The fight against organised crime, above all against the spread of drugs, will become more effective as the decisions are implemented.
At Tampere, we decided to draft a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in which the European Parliament will also be fully involved.
The meeting at Helsinki will deal with joint crisis management and the resources to be allocated to it, along with a timetable for this joint action.
According to a new opinion poll, this enjoys the support of a clear majority in my country.
This step towards a common foreign and defence policy, in close cooperation with NATO, is an important part of civil, economic and political crisis management.
The Intergovernmental Conference, at which next year will be decided the institutional changes that are required within the Community as a condition for enlargement, will have its roots in, and receive its agenda from, Helsinki.
At Helsinki, the status of the new applicant countries will also be decided, which means that the artificial division in Eastern and Central Europe into better and poorer candidates will end.
But is our own house in order at present, and what must the people of those countries trying to join the Community think about this patent protectionism, which undermines the basic work of the Community in the economic sector?
What measures might be imposed in time on their relatively low-income citizens and on their companies competing in the Community?
For example, Spain still holds back from the all-important creation of the European limited company, the United Kingdom safeguards City jobs by refusing to accept the harmonisation of taxation even as regards the taxation of capital, France would rather go to the Community court than liberalise its electricity market as required by Union legislation, the German Chancellor breaks all the rules of the market economy and rescues a construction company on the brink of bankruptcy in order to gain political kudos in his home country, and the beef war against England continues far beyond the requirements of health.
How can we be contemplating enlargement if we are still fighting in the current EU area in a manner that goes against the rules of the Single Market?
European competitiveness is not strong now either, the markets in the Community are not functioning correctly and the process whereby differences in consumer goods prices in the EMU area would be evened out has ground to a halt.
My examples in no way mean that I exclude the possibility of the rules being broken in my country as well.
I only wish to say that the future aims in Helsinki are good ones, but our own European house must also be put in order in accordance with the rules of the Union.
Mr President, the whole house agrees with Mrs Halonen: Helsinki must inject new life into the process of enlargement of the European Union.
The individual negotiations which we want to conduct with 12 applicant countries should not become mere routine.
The last Intergovernmental Conference of the century marks the end of a millennium of European wars and you must ensure, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that the foundations are laid so that there will never again be another millennium of wars in Europe.
That is the aim of enlargement, to unite the whole of Europe in a European Union.
Mrs Halonen, we support what you have said regarding the negotiations and how they are to be conducted and are also in agreement with what Mr Prodi has said on the matter.
We find that all well and good, but what you have said about the preparation of accession, about the so-called Amsterdam leftovers, that is not enough for us.
We want comprehensive reform of the European Union.
If we are to open the doors of the European house, of our European Union, in order to take in another 12 lodgers in addition to the 15 already living here, then one visit from the cleaner is not enough, we need to convert the whole house.
That is something I have heard too little about, not only from you, but also from the other governments of the European Union.
I know what you are thinking and perhaps what your intentions are: let us just begin with a few minor reforms at this Intergovernmental Conference and then, after next year' s Intergovernmental Conference, there will be another Intergovernmental Conference and so on and so forth.
I put it to you that the people of the European Union are tired of seeing the EU stumble from one Intergovernmental Conference to the next, taking so many tiny steps that they no longer know which direction they are going in.
We must show them once and for all what our image of the European Union and of the future of Europe is, instead of watching the EU constantly stumbling from one conference to the next.
With regard to the common defence policy, we welcome the statement which you have made today, but there must be more to European summits than statements and papers.
We want you to take the decisions needed in Helsinki so that concrete initiatives can be introduced into both military and non-military aspects of the common defence policy and to stipulate the operational capacities needed and the institutions in which the decisions are to be taken.
Finally, we want, on the day after Helsinki, on 12 December, to be able to talk about a real European Summit, a Summit from which we can look out into the new millennium and not just a mole-hill without a view.
You have the responsibility and the opportunity to ensure that the Finnish Presidency at the end of this century goes down in history as a great presidency!
Mr President, there are two particularly important issues to be debated at the Helsinki Summit: Union enlargement and setting the IGC in motion.
As we adopted the broad resolution on the IGC in the previous part-session at Strasbourg, we should have focused this time mainly on Union enlargement.
Unfortunately, the joint resolution drafted by the groups only contains a few paragraphs on enlargement.
The group of the European Liberal Democrats has tabled some amendments that would complement and improve the jointly prepared draft.
We hope that the Commission and the Council will draft an overall strategy, in which enlargement of the Union and its future reforms might be linked to a broader pan-European scenario.
In our opinion, we should consider various models of differentiated integration and try to achieve an ever-developing, concentrically conceived Union, in which there would be a federal core and a less integrated outer perimeter.
We furthermore propose that the Union should use the European Council and the OSCE as forums for pan-European cooperation.
We hope there will be support for our proposal.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that the Commission has made a long overdue move towards revision of the enlargement strategy.
But that should not blind us to the fact that the enlargement strategy has still not actually been revised in certain areas, namely with regard to aid, transparency and parity.
There is still no public debate in these countries, no social dialogue, no involvement at regional or local level; what we take for granted cannot happen there because the EU instruments do not allow it.
I would also like to point out how important it is for the presidency to inject new life into this forum with a new European conference and to involve these future EU members equally in the new configuration of the European Union.
This applies both to institutional reforms and to the common objective of meeting the Kyoto objectives.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit would like clarity on the matter.
The European Union must ensure that the enlargement process is not slowed down because institutional reforms have not taken place within the Union.
The European Commission' s transparency concerning candidate countries should be adopted by the European Summit.
What will a Union comprising more than 25 Members actually look like?
Moreover, Turkey requires special treatment in the accession strategy.
It also remains unclear what will change for Turkey now that this State is being treated as a candidate country, although there is absolutely no question of accession taking place as yet.
The agenda for the IGC in 2000 must list more items than the three leftovers from Amsterdam.
The attitude regarding the accession process displayed by people within candidate countries remains worrying.
In this respect, it is important to develop a clear information strategy.
In fact, the same applies just as much to public opinion within the EU Member States.
Otherwise, the value of an enlarged Union will remain vague to the average European citizen.
The composition of the European institutions must be changed in good time.
It is hoped that the Summit will draw up a schedule for this.
Mr President, as former rapporteur on the enlargement strategy I of course welcome with open arms the new proposals submitted to the Council by the Commission once and for all to eliminate the unfortunate dichotomy between candidate countries, once and for all.
Also, I could not agree more with the reason given in this respect.
We used exactly the same reason for promoting the so-called "Regatta model" which did a great deal more justice to the own merits and efforts of the countries that wanted to join the European Union.
Indeed, if we say to the most developed of the candidate countries: you are already in really, then they will sit back and no longer put in the same effort.
We witnessed this in the case of the Czech Republic: policy stagnated.
Other less developed countries, such as Bulgaria and Romania, will be discouraged and will lose the backing of the people for hard-line measures.
Thankfully, this bizarre division into two groups is also being rescinded.
I highly commend the Council, in anticipation that is, for the fact that it is going to implement these changes and this strategy in accordance with the original Parliament position.
It is extremely important that the European Parliament puts its own house in order too.
We need a swift victory during the Intergovernmental Conference in 2000.
We need to start reforming our institutions ourselves, to democratise ourselves.
We require candidate countries to develop their institutions and ensure that they operate democratically.
Imagine if we did not need to meet these requirements ourselves.
I am, therefore, extremely taken aback by what Mr Van den Berg, from the [Dutch] Labour Party, wrote in a letter published recently which stated, in so many words, that the Union' s reform should no longer be a prerequisite for enlargement. How can it not be?
I am extremely pleased that the leaders in the socialist group here do not subscribe to this view.
Indeed, only if one does not operate with the best of intentions for the European Union can one say that we do not need to put our own house in order.
We could easily offer the new Member States a house which will turn into a heap of rubble.
They are entitled to more.
They are entitled to democratically functioning institutions within the EU, of which they want to become members and which can take effective decisions.
We should not offer them anything less.
Anyone who wants to focus only on the EU' s achievements as a free trade zone should just continue making this type of proposal.
The reproach implicit in his letter that the Union actually regulates far too much at national, regional and local level, is also striking.
Only hardened supporters of Mrs Thatcher talk in this way about decentralisation of Union policy.
It is genuinely not the case that we rob national, regional and local governments of duties which belong there. Quite the opposite, in fact; subsidiarity is held in very high esteem here.
Anyone who denies this is making a mockery of our work.
In my opinion, all Member States should make a proper and sound contribution to the public debate on the European Union and we can bring this about, for example, by ensuring that insignificant issues which take us away from the real issues dealt with by the European Union are abandoned, the type of issues raised by the entire delegation brought by Mr Van den Berg.
I applaud the fact that we are going to develop a European Security and Defence Policy without weakening transatlantic relations and the link with NATO.
I am extremely happy that we both, that is Mr Hänsch and I, also clearly agreed on this point, highlighting nevertheless that the European Union really prefers non-military means.
This is simply a fact.
But we also know that non-military means and diplomatic means often only really work if a credible, military threat is present in the background.
I think that as far as this is concerned, we have learnt our lesson.
The European Union has been dangerous because it was unable to split sovereign power in terms of security and defence policy.
This is now changing, fortunately.
Mr President, I herewith wish the Council the best of luck with the proposals we are submitting and I hope that the Council will, in good time, listen to the European Parliament regarding these other issues as well.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Europe has undergone substantial change over the last ten years.
The development that began with the turning point in autumn 1989 has reached a stage of controlled progress, thanks to the determined policies of the European Union.
We have laid down clear guidelines for Europe' s development, but there is work still to be done.
The Intergovernmental Conference, the reality of a common foreign and security policy and the controlled realisation of enlargement are matters that have to be thoroughly prepared for, both in the applicant countries and in the European Union.
These areas form an important whole on the agenda of the Helsinki European Council and, as has been said here, this whole is so dynamic that if everything succeeds, the Helsinki meeting will be an historic event.
The importance of these matters means that it is vital that Parliament also debates the issue thoroughly.
We are now in a situation where, for the first time, full consideration must be given to the Treaty of Amsterdam in a meeting of the European Council.
The President-in-Office of the Council' s excellent speech fully covered the questions and challenges of a common security and defence policy for the Union.
We should point out that the Helsinki Summit will focus on the European Union' s policy on the northern dimension and hence bring about more solid tools of stability and security for the northern part of Europe.
When we speak of security, peace and stability in Europe, we should not forget, however, the factors that have an impact on internal security in society.
A respect for fundamental rights and aspirations towards social equality are the best defence policy for ensuring social stability.
The European employment policy and the guidelines on employment for the year 2000 to be discussed at Helsinki as a part of that policy still belong at the top of the Union' s agenda.
The defence of democracy and the prevention of extremism are the basis of social justice, which means, among other things, combating unemployment.
Finally, I would like to express my sincere congratulations to the country to hold the presidency for having succeeded, with no amendments to regulations, this has not yet been possible, in clearly increasing transparency in the decision-making process in the European Union and especially, in the European Council.
Hopefully, future countries to hold the presidency will carry on the good work.
Mr President, my remarks will concern security aspects of today' s debate.
Members of the House may not be aware of an ill-judged intervention into national politics by the Secretary-General of NATO today.
Lord Robertson just recently attacked as isolationist the Scottish National Party' s policy concerning NATO membership.
That policy, I should tell you, is equivalent in effect to the stance of Austria, Finland and Sweden, and also Ireland, though the occasion of Lord Robertson's intervention was Ireland's accession to the Partnership for Peace Programme.
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council would deplore, as I do, a party political intervention by the Secretary-General of NATO, the logical implication of which is an attack on the defence policy of Finland and other Member States.
For the record, I should like to make it clear that, in common with all our colleagues in the Green European Free Alliance, we in the SNP are committed to the idea of collective security in Europe and welcome developments the Council will pursue to this end.
But we are rootedly opposed to the maintenance of nuclear weapons in Scottish coastal waters, or coastal waters anywhere in Europe, or the land of Europe.
This is a determining factor for defence policy as far as we are concerned, and I do not for a moment imagine that Ireland is in the process of developing a policy aimed at giving hospitality to nuclear weapons in their waters.
Indeed, Mr Collins assured me that this has nothing to do with NATO membership.
I hope that in developing our crisis management policy, we in Europe will think carefully as to where, if anywhere, nuclear weapons belong in it.
I do not think they belong at all.
Mr President, here, in this Chamber, I would like to express strong concern and, if I may say so, some pessimism regarding the developments that are taking shape regarding the forthcoming Summit.
Parliament has expressed a very clear position.
It has voiced the hope that some major institutional reforms will be unalterably implemented before enlargement takes place if we do not want Europe to turn into a large area of free trade and nothing more, where regulations and internal rules that are now obsolete leave it distinctly incapable of making decisions; it has also stated that decisions on majority voting and membership of the committees are not sufficient to give fresh impetus and new strength to Europe, but that some other avenues should be taken, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights and certain other elements that should have united the whole of the great European movement: all this, of course, must be in full respect for the nations, their feelings, their history and their traditions, which I consider to be extremely important.
However, what I think I have understood - since we are not blind - is that at the forthcoming conference, caution and realism are likely to prevail over audacity and courage.
But at an historic time such as this, when we either have the courage to take a giant step forwards or else risk being condemned to a lengthy period of impotency, I think that audacity and courage count for more than realism.
I therefore extend an invitation to all those who believe in these goals, in these objectives, to be firm and determined, and we have here with us President Prodi who has declared this several times, and I know he believes it. I also invite the European Parliament to meet immediately after Helsinki - if, as I fear, the conclusion will be progress, but too limited - and with a very open mind and great courage to take responsibility for all of its decisions, saying and thinking, as at other times in European history, that Parliament has great possibilities and a significant role to play.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to confine myself to two comments regarding the Helsinki Summit.
The first concerns the Intergovernmental Conference.
It seems clear from what the Minister has said that the Cologne conclusions will not be the only three items on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
In my opinion, it is only right that issues relating to common foreign policy, defence and the economy should be discussed.
However, it would be wrong just to stick to these few issues and ignore matters relating to the future structure and legal identity of the European Union, or social and cultural issues.
I should like, at this juncture, to point out that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is of the utmost importance, and we should ensure that it evolves into a binding text and does not just remain a simple declaration of intent.
My second comment concerns the position of Turkey.
We must tread very carefully on this issue at the Helsinki Summit, because this ties in closely with the fact that Turkey has yet to demonstrate in its policies that it has understood that close relations with Europe depend on its fulfilling certain conditions, as laid down in EU texts and decisions.
The question which arises here concerns the extension of the borders of Europe, especially with enlargement in the offing, and of whether or not the borders are to be extended to include Turkey.
These are, in my view, important issues which we must bear in mind.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the strategy, which is generally sensible and coherent as far as enlargement is concerned.
However, although this vision, which is held both by the Council and the Commission on the issue of enlargement, may be ambitious, the same cannot be said about the content of the forthcoming IGC.
In fact, what we have on the table now is merely a continuation of what could not be achieved in Amsterdam.
I would say there is "plenty of ambition for enlargement and yet very little ambition for a revision of the Treaty of the Union itself" .
There is even greater cause for concern when what we want to revise, that is the famous institutional triangle, is defended on the basis of an argument for efficiency and not on the basis of an overall vision of the European project.
I do not think that anyone will be happy if the Intergovernmental Conference at the end of 2000 results in the Commission or the Council taking decisions in two hours which they previously took in five, six or seven.
The project of European construction does not rest on the criterion of efficiency but on the criterion of cohesion and what we all hope is that, in Helsinki, a political agenda is set, and not a technical agenda with complicated political consequences.
In this regard, I would like to welcome the Portuguese Presidency' s willingness to grant the European Parliament' s representatives at this IGC the same status that will be given to the Commission as far as the personal representatives of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs are concerned.
It also appears important that we take advantage of the Portuguese Presidency' s willingness to have the IGC start not in March but, if possible, as early as January.
As for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, it is important that it is able not only to extend the rights that are already laid down in Charters and Treaties but also that it recognises rights in the social and economic spheres and, above all, that it is able to be innovative and creative in the area of new rights concerning environmental issues and the protection of consumer rights.
I shall now address a third point to which President Barón Crespo has already referred, concerning employment issues. The Union cannot only attempt to deal with employment issues when we are going through periods of economic slowdown.
Our policies should be active, not reactive.
We must take advantage of the current economic cycle and of the declaration that the Finnish Presidency will be making on the Millennium and the new information society, so that we find a creative way of recording sustained growth and so that the goal of full employment is actually achieved and does not remain a rhetorical phrase.
Finally, Mr President, I also support you in your intention to have the strategic lines that were laid down in the Tampere Council conclusions approved, specifically in the fight against drug trafficking, and I hope that the Portuguese Presidency will be willing to adopt its own action plan in the next six-monthly term.
) Mr President, it is a real pity that the Intergovernmental Conference will not be considering certain essential elements on the area of freedom, security and justice, none of which can be achieved at the expense of the others.
I also regret that our joint motion for a resolution does not mention the problems linked to Eurodac, even though the Council has just announced, contrary to the Treaties, that this body should remain purely intergovernmental. This would, of course, exclude the European Parliament and the Court of Justice from any control in this area.
Similarly, faced with the multiplication of information systems such as Europol and Eurodac, this House should have repeated its demand for an independent commission on data processing and the protection of privacy in order to preserve our individual freedoms, in addition to democratic and judicial control.
The idea of citizenship is also most notably absent from this text.
Yet this is a subject of vital importance. It is a cornerstone of the negotiations on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and also on the constitutionalisation of the Union.
When the Union is enlarged, it is this citizenship which must be at the heart of our European project in order to ensure human and sustainable development.
To conclude, we must realise that such a pale and insipid text cannot satisfy the people of Europe.
We must take care that we do not distance ourselves too much from their aspirations if we are to build a fairer and more democratic Europe with a greater sense of solidarity.
Mr President, I wish the Finnish Presidency every success at the Helsinki Summit as this will conclude a range of important work undertaken during its term.
With regard to the issues mentioned by the President-in-Office of the Council, the shape of the Union following enlargement raises no problems for this House, for the Commission proposal or for the Council of Ministers.
On the issue of the Intergovernmental Conference, such an optimistic situation is not appropriate in view of the tour by the Finnish Prime Minister. It would be a pity to miss this opportunity of giving a boost to the project of European integration and we will regret not having taken due advantage of this occasion.
I completely agree with Mrs Halonen' s assessment that it is absolutely essential to reaffirm the international presence of the European Union. This is particularly true in the fields of security and defence to which the Finnish Presidency - and this can be said with legitimate pride - has given a decisive boost with this historic meeting of Defence and Foreign Ministers.
This is the first time that this has occurred in the history of the European Union.
Furthermore, we must stress the need to consolidate the achievements made at the Tampere Summit, referred to by the previous speaker, on an area of freedom, security and justice.
As mentioned by the President-in-Office of the Council, it is essential that we confirm and prepare the work of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to employment.
We are at an all-time low in the short history of the euro so the Helsinki European Council should devote some time to the issue of the external representation of the euro zone.
Mrs Halonen, you referred to the need for us to promote a more open, democratic and transparent European integration project.
I noted with satisfaction the comment made by the President of the Commission on the presence of the European Parliament at the Intergovernmental Conference, but I would like you to say this as well.
We cannot achieve a more open, transparent and democratic Europe if the European Parliament is not fully involved in the work of the IGC.
I hope and pray that the European Council in Helsinki can give us a Europe which is more judicious, more united and much more community-spirited, and therefore much less intergovernmental.
Mr President, I have taken the floor to express, first of all, my surprise at what the President-in-Office of the Council said about the Intergovernmental Conference: Mrs Halonen did not even mention the European Parliament' s resolution of 18 November and the proposals it contains on the agenda of the Conference.
They are serious and justified proposals, not escapist flights of fancy or vain utopian desires.
I do not think it is right to take this attitude towards an important stance adopted by Parliament.
We already know everything about the three leftovers from Amsterdam: all that remains is to make the choices that were not made during the previous conference.
We should take a year just to do this.
May I say that it is ridiculous to uphold this.
Take heed: if the Council, if the governments do not open up the agenda of the Helsinki Summit to essential institutional issues that are now more than ready to be addressed, the debate on enlargement will lack credibility and we will show ourselves incapable of having a far-sighted view of the development of all aspects of the Union.
President Prodi, I do not understand what the preparatory work outside the Intergovernmental Conference you spoke of should be.
You seemed to be entrusting to this strange forum some of the issues that were put forward here by the Commission on 10 November.
I hope that you will keep all those Commission proposals on the agenda and the conference approach unchanged, and will contribute in this way to a positive outcome of the Helsinki Council.
Mr President, I think that President Prodi did well in his intervention, all of which we should agree with, to say that enlargement is the main and essential point for Helsinki.
Parliament had already been stressing for some time the inadequacy of the approach adopted by the Commission and the Council on enlargement.
I think it was a question of a strategic and political error, the consequences of which were fortunately limited by the Commission' s change of mind, even though, I must say, it is sad to think that perhaps it was only the war which we experienced on our doorstep that pushed them towards this new strategy.
It is right to begin negotiations with all the applicant states, but there is no doubt that we must differentiate between these countries, given that the levels of adaptation to Europe vary greatly between them.
Of course, it seems difficult to talk about accession dates, even if it would be useful, very useful, in order to facilitate public opinion in the countries concerned, given that it is increasingly obvious that it is a risk: negotiations that are too lengthy may cool enthusiasm, both in Member States as well as applicant states, as shown by the recent opinion polls carried out in Poland and as I personally saw in this country from where I returned yesterday.
We would therefore lose an historic opportunity, to quote President Prodi again.
I am absolutely convinced that the accession of a new Member State must be the result of a broad consensus between political groups but, above all, the majority of the populations concerned should be in agreement.
Therefore, we need - and this is my invitation to Parliament - to draw particular attention to the information campaigns which keep support for the European option in these countries at a high level.
In this respect, I think that the PHARE programme may be the appropriate instrument, and I therefore think that it must be consolidated precisely in this area.
Mr President, allow me to pick up where my colleague Mr Gawronski left off, namely the acceptance of Europe among the people of the various countries seeking to join the European Union.
It is not only Poland; other countries, such as the Czech Republic, also keep their enthusiasm for the European Union in check.
I should like to point out that the Commission' s progress report on the Czech Republic refers to a medium-sized town in the Czechia where a fence has been built down a street to separate the Czechs from the Romas.
That is hardly progress.
I have been there twice, I have spoken to the mayor, I said the fence must go and what happened?
The tabloid press of Europe is calling this fence a wall, as if it were not only the Berlin wall but the great wall of China.
It has been so blown up that the people there are, understandably, extremely angry because they assume that there is sauce for the goose and sauce for the gander in the European Union.
We have one set of rules for ourselves, and we are far from whiter than white, and we have another set of rules for applicant countries and we expect everything of them which we ourselves fail to deliver.
When we in the European Union take a look around us, at ethnic conflicts and terrorist attacks, I think that, if the boot were on the other foot, for example, if the Czech Republic were already in the Union, then it would say to a certain Member State: friend, if you do not get your house in order, then you must wait another twenty years before you become a Member State.
I simply mean we should make sure that the people are not put off.
The point is, we do not need to get on with the politicians in the applicant countries, but with the people.
That is all that counts.
Mr President, the European Parliament will summarise this debate on Helsinki in a resolution.
As always, it will be a compromise resolution.
There is nothing wrong with that, it is the nature of the beast.
But, in this case, I fear that the willingness of the joint authors of this resolution to reach a compromise has gone too far.
I am not referring so much to what is said, although I do have, to a greater or lesser extent, some difficulty with that, such as on the subject of Turkey.
My criticism applies mainly to what is not said in the resolution.
We set too much store by the principle of hope and too little on hard facts as far as enlargement is concerned.
The Commission refers again and again in its status reports on the level of adaptation to the acquis communautaire to the fact that candidate countries, and this includes both the first wave and the second wave, are very slow in transposing and adapting to the acquis in numerous areas, such as social affairs, the environment and energy, as well as in human rights and living democracy.
That is not enough.
We should not be content to hope that a death sentence in Turkey will perhaps not be carried through.
We should not be content to hope that sometime, somewhere, what are clearly unsafe nuclear power stations will perhaps be closed.
We should not pretend that the extremely long transition periods which, in the 1980s, did not cause any real problems, may not cause any problems to the internal market.
Do we really want to accept transition periods of fifteen years or more for basic freedoms in the movement of people and in the service sector and still keep our borders open?
We are in favour of enlargement; it is the answer to the question of the future of Europe, which is precisely why we must speak a clear language, even in compromise resolutions.
Mr President, it is my privilege to speak again in a debate with Mrs Halonen.
In fact, my first ever speech in this Chamber was back in July when I commended the Finnish Presidency on giving priority to information society and its work programme.
Tonight, as we draw towards the close of that presidency, I want to commend the Finnish Presidency for working on this, but also to express some disappointment that it has not made more of the opportunities.
Mrs Halonen only just managed to fit in a mention of information society - I think right in the last sentence of her speech - and yet, according to a paper that I received from the Commission last week, we are to have an e-Europe initiative presented at Helsinki, a paper entitled "Information Society for All" .
So far, we have not seen that.
"All" clearly still does not include Members of the European Parliament, so not many people know about it.
Indeed it barely rated a mention in your speech, but I hope that the Council is going to spend some time on this vital topic.
Could I also say on the broader topic of completing the internal market that, during the Finnish Presidency, we have had some very important strategy papers and they actually require a much higher priority than they are receiving in the Community at the moment.
Indeed, the motion for a resolution I saw this morning contained no mention of any internal market or information society initiatives at all, despite the work that has been going on under your Presidency.
I tabled an addendum in the name of my group this morning to include those items and I hope very much it will receive the support of this House.
In conclusion, I also hope that the Finnish Presidency will remind Member governments at the Helsinki Council that creating a single market requires that cross-border takeovers and the restructuring of key industries must be allowed to proceed without political interference by Member governments.
I am sure that Members of this House will know that there is a crucial takeover battle under way at the moment in the telecommunications sector.
I have to say I am disappointed to see that some of the comments by senior politicians, and even Members of the Commission, suggest that the whole philosophy of an internal market has still to be fully accepted.
Mr President, first I will admit that when we tried to meet both the demands of time and adhere to priorities we chose as the basis of talks certain of those issues which we knew would be the most important topics at Helsinki.
Thus, I have touched less in my speech on certain other matters, attention to which has been drawn here quite justifiably.
However, I can reassure and console the Members of the European Parliament and say that these issues have not been forgotten.
Firstly, as regards the question of employment, we regard this as very important, and we have made preparations, as I said in my speech, to ensure that history' s first Summit conference on employment is a real success during Portugal' s presidential term.
The special theme in matters of employment during the Finnish Presidency has been, inter alia, the status of the aged. There was an informal meeting of the Employment and Social Affairs Council on this subject, and we have also had a conference at ministerial level specifically on the topic of equality.
In addition, we have raised the issue of the information society in the area of employment.
A Council resolution was adopted on 29 November regarding employment in the information society and the social dimension.
I will give my replies in a slightly different order from the speakers, but as Mr Harbour seems to be here still, I will say to him too that the Commission is presenting its extensive information society initiative to the European Council in Helsinki.
The document will only be published on December 8.
The issue is to be debated properly at the special Summit meeting in Portugal.
The main focus of information society matters at Helsinki will be the consultation between the information society and competitiveness.
This is an angle that has achieved prominence during the Finnish Presidency and will probably now be discussed in connection with issues to do with the economy, employment and competitiveness.
Thus, there is also an intention in the conclusions to speed up the development of a regulated environment for electronic commerce.
During the Finnish presidential term we have made progress in major projects for regulation, but the finishing touches will be undertaken during the next presidential term.
So the results are somewhat better, or I might even venture to say, substantially better than was perhaps evident from my speech.
Then I would like to answer one separate question, which is linked to the subject of enlargement.
With regard to the question of the Roma people, which was raised here, I would like to say for my own part that I think it is right to focus attention on human rights, both generally and, in particular, regarding the rights of minorities, both in the European Union, but especially in those countries seeking membership.
We have had experience of applicant countries during the Finnish presidential term, particularly with regard to the poor treatment of the Roma people, to the extent that large numbers of them have left those countries to apply for asylum.
There are already nearly one thousand of them in Finland, if memory serves.
The country to hold the presidency has not wished to draw the conclusion that the cause of this might only be found in Slovakia, Romania or in some other individual country.
This is a common problem, and, for that reason, we intend to raise the issue, not in connection with enlargement, but as a general part of the Summit conference agenda, that Member States and applicant countries must improve the implementation of the rights of minorities.
The country to hold the presidency is also offering to cooperate in this regard.
Then I will turn to what are actually the main issues.
Firstly, I will say in all honesty, regarding the Intergovernmental Conference, that we are unanimous on the issues omitted from the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Many of us here have tried to suggest that it would take just a little effort to try and solve these problems.
Members of Parliament, they were not omitted from the Treaty of Amsterdam because they would have been minor issues.
They were left out because they were very difficult questions and they have not got any easier in the meantime.
However, a clear definition of the task will give us the chance now to succeed, as will the pressure to ensure the matter is put right.
In addition, I clearly listed for you those issues that are closely connected with these subject areas, and that can possibly be added to the agenda.
The third group is those issues that one or more Member States have raised.
I venture to say that, although Finland is still a young Member State, I am at present one of the oldest foreign ministers in terms of years in office.
There are only a couple of us ministers left who were at the previous Intergovernmental Conference.
At that IGC we gained the support of 12, 13 or 14 Member States in quite a number of areas.
But we did not receive support from the full 15, which would have been required for example for these majority decisions.
In this connection, I am not at all sceptical, but I am realistic with regard to the fact that, if we want to get certain issues through quickly, we have to concentrate on those that are to some extent ready.
Then there is this other process, whereby the big, longer-term plans are addressed.
We can make progress just as soon as we are unanimous on them, but they are not vital with regard to enlargement.
Regarding the participation of the European Parliament, I still cannot say what the solution will be at the Helsinki Summit, but I have said it already once before, and I will say so again, that our experience of their involvement on the previous occasion was a positive one.
This is therefore the position of the country to hold the presidency.
With regard to enlargement, that will be the topic of debate in the last General Affairs Council to be held on 6 December.
At this Council meeting I shall try to put together those elements concerning Turkey that at least will enable us to believe we can make progress.
I have had on-going discussions on this matter with my colleagues.
I am not quite sure whether we will yet be able to achieve unanimity on the subject at the General Affairs Council.
Should there be sufficient unanimity to make a joint decision, the country to hold the presidency can still use the days it has left before the Helsinki Summit to put the finishing touches to the issue.
Our common desire seems to be that the issue should be solved somehow through consensus before the Helsinki Summit and, as the representatives of the country to hold the presidency, we will work hard to achieve a positive solution.
I am grateful for all the comments made regarding the speed of enlargement, the Copenhagen criteria and everything else.
Most of them reflected our opinion very closely when we were preparing the paperwork in the Council of Ministers.
There were fewer remarks about foreign and security policy, but I would like to perhaps comment on one point.
I have not mentioned the northern dimension issue at all this time.
A meeting at ministerial level was held in Helsinki on the issue of the northern dimension, as we promised. Attendance was poor on the part of the foreign ministers of the other EU Member States - I was the only one there - but certain other ministers were present as well as all those ministers who are involved in the issue of the northern dimension.
The response was very encouraging.
The Commission promised to move things one step further and make an action plan, and thus we achieved what was perceived as the goal relating to the Portuguese presidential term.
I agree with those who have spoken here that, if we increase stability, that, in its own way, increases security in Europe.
With regard once more to enlargement, we have endeavoured to remind the applicant countries, just as has been said here, that we are not accepting new governments as members: we are accepting new countries.
It is very important to say to the governments of applicant countries that they must also involve the opposition and the whole population in their plans, just as has been asked of them.
I have said that the European Union cannot just accept young, well educated males living in cities, but we are taking everyone, including the elderly, those who live in rural areas, the less well-educated and women.
The plans must thus also take account of that.
Hopefully, we shall also be able to speak with them about social cohesion, nuclear safety and security, as well as many other things.
I have tried to convince the applicant countries of these matters by saying that although not all these points will be dealt with at the negotiations, it might just be that they will attract so much attention in the parliaments of Member States that the applicant countries would be assured of swift acceptance if they began to attend to these matters right away, matters that will, in any case, be very important when they eventually become members.
A final word about the IGC: if we acquired a legal character for the European Union at the next IGC many issues would be resolved.
A legal personality, which is a matter that has been raised here in many speeches, was one of the questions that the majority supported but, where, unfortunately, consensus was not forthcoming. This was just another example of that problem.
Mr President, I have a specific question for the President-in-Office of the Council. What is her opinion on the full participation of the European Parliament at the Intergovernmental Conference?
This is an important question as it is contained in the report approved by this House and is vital to us.
I would be grateful if she could answer this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber I have heard some pessimistic words regarding the forthcoming Summit.
I do not agree at all. It is an extraordinarily important Summit that we - Parliament, Commission and Council Presidency - have prepared very carefully and vigorously, and the challenge of enlargement is an historic challenge of decisive importance.
At Helsinki, enlargement will take root, get going and completely change Europe' s appearance.
I agree with what many of you have said, that we must proceed towards enlargement with gusto and energy, a process which will look at each country' s case closely but seek to prevent them losing faith in us.
Our programme for enlargement is therefore not at all minimalist.
The theory of the 'regatta' , the image of each country running and improving as it does so, is the concept we have favoured.
Along with this, it is clear that we want to see an effective Intergovernmental Conference.
We therefore believe - as Mr Seguro just said - that we must start as soon as possible.
I think that we can and must start in January because there are many areas to be addressed: Amsterdam, issues arising from Amsterdam, cohesion, codecision, the issue of security and defence, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and also the reform of the Treaty.
It is not a minimalist agenda.
Mr Napolitano, I would also like to reassure you regarding the proposal to carry out accompanying preparatory work, and I stress the word accompanying: since the reform of the Treaties involves extremely detailed and special technical aspects, we cannot let ourselves be accused of not having carried out a thorough study and a complete analysis of these aspects.
This is not a postponement: accompanying means that we will start work ourselves and that technical work will be carried out at the same time. This technical work is indispensable in order to avoid any delay in this area that could reduce the effectiveness of our action.
We are starting by closely following the document tabled previously, with firm proposals and also a sense that, after enlargement, we shall be faced with the real issue that must be carefully and attentively defined, with a very far-ranging debate - the nature and borders of Europe.
Many of you have mentioned this, and I have already asked Parliament several times and I am repeating it again now: I think that, alongside the implementation of enlargement - which will definitely take place, since the enlargement process I hope we will decide on in Helsinki will have no room for doubts, problems or hesitation - we will have to open a debate on the nature and shape of Europe, since we are the ones who will have to shape these borders and decide on the nature of Europe. We cannot simply meet the requests of countries asking to join Europe, however legitimate.
Where would these requests end?
Why should countries in Asia, for example, not apply?
We will nevertheless be the ones who decide.
I could give you a whole list of countries which, basically, would be interested and eager to join Europe, thereby changing its very nature. Europe is not a customs agreement; it is not an area of free trade.
Europe is a Union of countries, and indeed we have called it the European Union. It is clear, then, that together we must undertake major institutional reform so that we can make positive decisions, while pressing ahead with this debate on the borders and nature of Europe.
To conclude, I would just like to add, in relation to the nuclear power stations, the efforts regarding the Balkans and the social and cultural questions that have been raised here, that we really have studied and analysed these matters thoroughly.
Agreements are in place that lead should to a strategy being developed to close these plants, which will make things safe, while, at the same time, giving these countries the realistic chance to leave their problems behind together.
This is what we are doing and we are therefore setting off for the Summit with a huge challenge and a complex agenda before us.
I would like to thank Parliament for the way that, in recent months, the Commission and Parliament have been able to act in unison as regards these issues.
What we said on the first day we met still stands: our challenge is not one with zero gain but, by cooperation, both Parliament and the Commission will gain from it.
Indeed, I believe that it is our responsibility to bring continuity to Europe' s development, the development of Europe in the long term, not just on a day by day basis.
For this, I think that, apart from these areas, we will have to undertake a debate on tomorrow' s Europe, its borders and its nature, subjects which I have mentioned many times because I believe that this is a great task that we must perform together.
Mr President, I will say again that it has been the opinion of the country to hold the presidency that our experience with regard to the participation of the European Parliament in the previous Intergovernmental Conference was a positive one.
Since then, the Prime Minister of the country to hold the presidency has toured, and continues to tour, the Member States to ask for opinions with regard to this matter, prior to the Summit in Helsinki.
Currently, opinions appear to differ.
Some think this development should go further while others would keep the situation more or less as it is.
However, I think that Parliament will retain at least the same rights as it had in the previous IGC.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Statement by the President
Mr Karlsson, the President of the Court of Auditors, who was to present the Court Annual Report, has to leave Brussels at 7 p.m.
Given the way we are proceeding with our agenda, it will not be possible to take this item before then.
It will therefore have to be postponed to another part-session.
The matter will be discussed later by the Conference of Presidents, when it establishes the final draft agenda for the December part-session.
Annual report on human rights
The next item is the Council statement on the annual report on human rights followed by a debate.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, first I would like to express my thanks for the opportunity to present the European Union' s first annual report on human rights.
My intention is not to repeat the content of the report, but to take a look at the future.
Developing the EU' s policy on human rights is a huge challenge that requires courage combined with forbearance.
To be effective, the EU must be able to achieve cooperation at many levels.
Cooperation has first to be enhanced among the institutions of the EU.
The EU must also be ready to cooperate more widely with civil society and the NGOs.
The EU supports the work of human rights defenders everywhere in the world.
For this we need the input of the NGOs.
The EU must also act in cooperation with international organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the UN.
This will also require a willingness to embrace transparency.
On the other hand, the EU' s aspirations with regard to visibility must not lead to a situation where there is overlap or its cooperation with other organisations becomes problematic.
The annual report on human rights must be seen, on account of what I have said before, as part of a process to strengthen the position of human rights in the Union.
I believe we all want to develop the Union in such a way that it can act more effectively on behalf of human rights throughout the world than has been the case thus far.
Speaking in the European Parliament, I do not have to single out the reasons why this work is necessary.
You know this: reports on violations of human rights are common in the media.
I am convinced that our work on behalf of human rights will also have the steadfast support of the people of Europe.
The annual report on human rights replaces the Council' s former annual memorandum on human rights to Parliament.
The purpose of the change is to increase and broaden information on the work and priorities of the Council.
In this way we are trying to create a forum for deeper and more analytical discussions on the work done by the EU for the issue of human rights.
In this connection I would also like to refer to the EU' s first human rights forum which ended earlier today, and which many of us also attended.
The forum witnessed an intense debate, and one that looked to the future, on many of the themes of the annual report.
The forum was intended as the start of a more regular and broader dialogue than was the case previously on the priorities and challenges associated with the EU' s policy on human rights.
This approach also earned the support of those attending.
I am myself also convinced that the forum has a future.
Feedback on how the forum might be developed further and improved will obviously be welcome.
But why should the EU publish a report on human rights every year?
Firstly, the Council sees it as a way of strengthening transparency with regard to the EU' s human rights policy.
The enhancement of transparency has been one of the main areas of focus during the Finnish Presidency, as you know.
When we speak of human rights, transparency is of particular importance.
It is necessary to reinforce dialogue and cooperation, as we all have our own role to play in this issue.
The annual report covers the period from the beginning of June 1998 up to the end of June 1999.
This period was chosen so that the EU June Summit meetings could be included in the report.
This is the timeframe that we intend to cover in future annual reports as well.
Secondly, through this annual report we are trying to increase consistency in EU human rights policy by means of this annual report.
I myself think that the main challenge to the EU policy on human rights is consistency and credibility in different forums.
For the first time, the report combines the work of the EU in different international organisations with our relations to third countries.
The report discusses the work in respect of the first and second pillars.
In drafting the annual report we realised that no corresponding information had been systematically compiled anywhere before.
We also learnt that we really had to establish consistency in the work of the Union beyond the boundaries of the pillars.
The annual report this time focuses on the EU' s external relations.
This first annual report, however, already includes a section that discusses EU action to prevent racism within the EU' s own territory.
For the work of the EU to gain credibility, we must ourselves observe those same principles with respect to human rights that we demand from others.
In future, there will be a need to examine the situation within the Union more broadly, as we said when we were preparing the report.
We must be fully prepared for this.
For example, in future, greater consideration might be given to the topics of asylum and refugees as they constitute an essential aspect of human rights.
The purpose behind the annual report is to describe the work of the EU and its thematic content over a given period.
It does not therefore attempt to be a comprehensive depiction of the human rights situation in different countries.
It may be that this will prove to be necessary later.
It may be justifiable to examine the situation in different countries more closely.
However, that would require more developed mechanisms and facilities for coherent monitoring and analysis than the EU possesses at present.
The first chapters of the report describe the bases of the EU' s policy on human rights.
These include the principles of universality and indivisibility.
After this we have tried to describe the key players and systems in the EU arena and with regard to international organisations.
There is also a section on priorities and questions of human rights according to theme, such as the rights of women, children and minority groups, and opposition to the death penalty and racism.
We also, justifiably, attach weight to the importance of economic, social and cultural rights.
I am quite aware that the content and form of the report need improving although we have already tried to make it concise and readable.
Since the annual report was approved in the Council it has also been available on the Internet.
In addition, it is to be published in all EU languages in the Council' s series of publications and it will be circulated far and wide.
This is because we think it is an important part of the promotion of human rights to ensure that people know what these rights are all about.
The Treaty of Amsterdam and the regulations on human rights that have recently entered into force will improve the EU' s chances of promoting human rights.
These increased opportunities must now be backed up by something tangible and meaningful.
In this regard, the EU policy on human rights is at a dynamic development stage.
Feedback from Parliament on this first annual report and its recommendations will also be most welcome.
As a result, we could make headway in the next annual report in a direction that we will have decided upon together.
I would like to mention one point as a separate item.
As I said at the start, we need deeper and more analytical cooperation with other European organisations, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
This is no mere polite expression of a wish, but a very important area to focus on when the EU contemplates its action in this area.
We have to avoid duplicating the work.
We will not tolerate the creation of double standards, which would be a problem for the applicant countries as well as ourselves.
Monitoring human rights in practice means monitoring the application of these human rights standards.
The development of these standards is an area in which the experience of the Council of Europe is greatest.
We in the Union should thus make use of the experience of others.
I believe that the working party set up to produce a Charter of Fundamental Rights is also now in a very important position.
In putting it together efforts were made to take different areas of expertise into account.
Hopefully, we will receive sound advice from the group on how we can increase the amount of work the EU does to improve human rights, in such a way that we acquire some genuine added value and it is not just a question of putting our initials to these issues.
My vision is that human rights will, in future, become more prominent in very different areas of debate.
The active discussion on human rights at the preliminary round of WTO talks at Seattle is a good indication of this.
Furthermore, it is worth mentioning the outcome of the meeting at Tampere.
In the future, the EU has to take more obvious account of the impact all its work has on the implementation of human rights.
The European Parliament, you yourselves, have an important role to play in this.
I appreciate it that Parliament closely monitors human rights issues and passes comment, sometimes forcefully and using colourful language, on the actions of governments.
In so doing, Parliament significantly complements intergovernmental cooperation.
I hope that the first annual report on human rights for its part will facilitate the realisation of this welcome development.
I have purposefully shortened my speech somewhat, as we are behind schedule and, unfortunately, the airline I am travelling with will not delay the departure of my flight just because I am late.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the publication of the first annual report on human rights.
I think that this publication will strengthen the visibility of the European Union in the field of human rights considerably.
The Commission was actively involved in the drafting of the report and worked closely with both the German and the Finnish Presidencies.
The Commission feels that a stronger balance should be struck between the three pillars of the European Union in future reports, in order to give a more comprehensive overview of the human rights situation at European level.
This report concentrates mainly on questions of common foreign and security policy.
One way of achieving greater balance in the future might be to take a more thematically structured approach focusing, for example, on particularly vulnerable groups, such as women and children, or specific questions, such as the monitoring of elections.
The Commission will, of course, continue to help the Presidency-in-Office to draft these reports.
Finally, I should like to point out that my colleague Chris Patten, who is very sorry that he is unable to be here today due to a foreign policy commitment, and Poul Nielson and I shall issue a communication on the promotion of human rights and democratisation in our external relations.
This communication will be adopted by the Commission in the first half of 2000 and will supplement the Council report on the human rights situation in that it will detail what specific action the Community can take in order to promote human rights in third countries, so that our declarations are backed up by serious, concrete initiatives and support.
Mr President, it is a very great joy that we have at last a report from the Council of Ministers on human rights.
I can remember making this request in December 1979 when the Russian troops were getting together to invade Afghanistan.
For some reason, over these past twenty years the Council of Ministers or the ministers meeting in political cooperation have been unwilling to put together a document.
Now at least we have a document, although I have to say that it is rather thin soup.
The careful balance the Commissioner mentioned needs to be made very carefully, but we need facts and details on how the human rights situation throughout the world is being handled.
I trust that this first document will be just one step along the way towards bringing us together and helping us to tackle human rights.
It has been an abominable year after all.
We have had war, murder, genocide, racism, xenophobia, and I wish we could have had something a little bit more powerful in this document, which was, I have to say, distributed very quickly.
It found itself in our pigeon-holes today and it was there for debate with the human rights forum which the President referred to.
These things are in need of quick action.
At the human rights forum this morning I spoke to one of the President-in-Office' s Finnish colleagues from the Finnish Foreign Ministry, about a particular case mentioned by the European Parliament recently, the case of Alexander Nikitin, a man who is on trial just a few miles away from Helsinki, for high treason.
He is facing the death penalty because he reported on the ecological disaster of nuclear submarines in the Murmansk area.
I take it this matter is of interest to the Finnish Government, but even though I raised this question with a member of the Finnish Foreign Office, we still do not have any information and the man is on trial today, and tomorrow.
I imagine it is familiar to those who are sitting with the Council of Ministers.
I hope someone can tell us something about it.
Mr President, this is, I suppose, the parliament in Europe that takes human rights the most seriously, and we have great possibilities in dealing with countries that violate human rights.
I believe that we have to look much more carefully at this question, to tackle those countries that behave disgracefully; the so-called fingernail-pulling governments need to be taken to task, and the European Parliament must be the institution that takes the lead in making sure that human rights are top of our agenda.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too welcome this first annual European Union report on human rights.
Obviously, we have had Commission documents and many European Parliament reports in the past, but this is the first time that the Council of Ministers has given us this type of text.
This demonstrates a welcome desire for transparency. It will, I hope, improve the information given to the public on the specific actions carried out between June 1998 and June 1999 and on the instruments and means available to the EU.
My only criticism is that this report is probably over-optimistic.
Inadequacies and grey areas are hardly mentioned.
However, the publication of this document encourages me to look to the near future and the preparation of an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This project, which must be part of the IGC' s work and which could be completed by the end of the year 2000, is of major importance for the Union, for all those living within the Union and for the applicant states.
Yet we currently have no guarantee that this text will meet expectations.
In particular, we fear that the European Council and the Council of Ministers have only very limited ambitions, namely to draft a mere declaration without any legal or binding force.
If this were to be the case, the European Union would lose all credibility in its own eyes and in the eyes of the rest of the world.
In addition, there is a concern about the risks of competition and even contradiction between this future Charter and existing texts which have indisputable force.
I am referring, of course, to the Council of Europe' s European Convention on Human Rights.
I hope, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that the Helsinki Summit will reassure us on all these points.
You are personally well acquainted with these issues.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we in the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have a mainly positive attitude to the present report on human rights.
Parliament has been wanting to see a report like this for a long time.
We are therefore looking forward with pleasure to the tradition which the Finnish Presidency has now initiated.
There is a need for specific detail, further development and more thorough analysis We shall be returning to these questions, from Parliament' s point of view, in the report for which I have the honour of being rapporteur and on which there will be a vote in March of next year.
I want to take up a number of questions, however.
One of these relates to the policy on minorities, of which there is little mention in the report.
The EU quite rightly makes tough demands on the applicant countries where policy on minorities is concerned.
We have also reacted very strongly when the rights of minorities in the world around us have been infringed.
However, we ourselves are not always as good at putting our own house in order.
The EU needs to strengthen its own policy on minorities.
Quite a few of the Member States (including my home country, Sweden) have not signed the international declaration on the rights of minorities.
This is an example of why the European Union must have a credible internal policy if it is to be credible externally.
The European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also welcomes the strategic perspective offered by the report, together with the ambition it expresses to work for a more integrated policy within the field of human rights.
The EU, and especially the European Parliament, in fact has a very high profile and very high ambitions in the struggle for human rights.
This Chamber has emphatically condemned the death penalty, discrimination, torture and other acts of cruelty.
We know that our citizens care deeply about these issues.
The problem is that our policy is not always consistent and integrated, and this sends out some odd signals.
Measures must be taken to combat this problem and ambitions need to be raised significantly.
If it is to be credible, our perspective on human rights must permeate the European Union' s entire policy, that is to say foreign policy, trade policy, policy on aid etc. What is required, therefore, is to raise the profile of human rights.
These ought not to be seen in terms of some incidental ad hoc initiative but must be founded upon a well thought-out, consistent, clear and open policy.
We must therefore be better at coordinating internal and external policies.
This will mean collecting facts and acquiring better data and engaging in analysis and regular follow-up.
It will require cooperation between the EU' s various institutions, between the EU and the Member States, between the EU and the voluntary organisations and between the EU and other countries.
The failure to bring about a worldwide moratorium on the use of the death penalty is both tragic and deeply embarrassing.
If this can become a common policy and a common strategy for the years to come, then I look forward to further constructive and fruitful work within this important sphere.
Mr President, the annual report in question is a welcome and important beginning, and its value is underlined by the fact that independent NGOs were equal partners at the human rights forum which has just ended and which was organised on the initiative of the country holding the presidency.
This is the start of what must become a tradition.
With human rights there is always the question of weighing up different values against one another: 'horizontal tensions' exist between the various human rights.
Since the end of the Cold War they have manifested themselves more dramatically than before in the balance between classic basic freedoms, on the one hand, and collective rights, such as economic, social and cultural rights, on the other.
The development has rapidly taken a direction which will weaken collective rights, which have been characteristic, for example, of the welfare state.
Of all the human rights, however, it is freedom of speech that holds a special position, as without free and independent communication the other human and fundamental rights cannot be established and even serious violations of human rights, such as crimes against humanity, cannot be effectively exposed.
As the President-in-Office of the Council said, reports on violations of human rights are an everyday occurrence.
A free and independent media is also a vital prerequisite of civil society.
For this reason, it would be advisable to accord greater emphasis in human rights monitoring and reporting by the Union to freedom of speech and to safeguarding, improving and monitoring the rights of journalists and their ability to work, for example, by devoting a special chapter or section to this area.
As we develop the Union' s own position on human rights we must, as the Foreign Minister, Mrs Halonen, said, be consistent.
But we must also maintain a balance.
There must be balance between the different types of human rights, the pillars, as mentioned by Mr Verheugen, and the institutions.
The European Union cannot complacently and regardless of others develop its own human rights culture in such a way as to upset the balance.
Mr President, in general terms nobody here dares argue against respect for human rights.
We should therefore move from the rhetorical to the practical.
What has happened to the right to work in a Europe with 18 million unemployed and 50 million living in poverty?
What has happened to the right to housing, health or education when millions of people are deprived of these?
What has happened to the right of asylum and freedom of movement when countries such as Belgium are expelling gypsies or, just yesterday, fifteen or so Nigerians?
The same is true of my country, France, which is refusing to legalise the situation of tens of thousands of illegal immigrants, in many cases packed into detention centres, and which is extraditing Basque refugees.
What has happened to the right to life when the armies of Europe agree to participate in bombardments of civilian populations in Serbia or Kosovo?
What response have the Member States given to questions from Amnesty International about having violated Article 5 of the Declaration on Human Rights banning torture and ill-treatment with impunity?
Finally, what has happened to human rights when, as is occurring now, the financial markets are allowed to make people redundant, exclude them and pollute them, all in the name of profit and good returns?
Mr President, I must take the opportunity afforded by the presentation of this lengthy report on human rights to highlight the constant violations of these rights which are being committed, on the basis of Stalinist-style legislation, against intellectuals in all fields who dare to give critical or simply independent opinions of the history of the Second World War. The media and the educational world are increasingly obsessed with the tragedy of the concentration camps in the name of interests that have nothing to do with the defence of the victims' memory.
In Europe, there are currently thousands of historians, sociologists, researchers, experts and ordinary people who are being hounded, persecuted, harassed and condemned. Their only crime is to have assessed, in an independent manner, the ever-changing but sometimes hysterical dogmas imposed on them by hired authors benefiting from full official collusion.
In my home town of Lyons, a young historian with no means of support whom I did not know - Mr Plantin is his name - has been sentenced simply because in the bibliography of a scholarly review which he publishes he included works which correct historical errors which no serious historian of whatever persuasion now accepts.
He has been arrested, his computer has been confiscated and each of the usual associations has sued him and extorted large amounts of compensation from him.
His former tutors at university have had to apologise, in a show of loathsome cowardice, for the qualifications which they awarded him.
His printer, a rural craftsman, has also been sentenced.
He was charged under the act on publications corrupting youth, which could usefully be applied in other areas, and under the legislative act brought in by the French Communist Gayssot according to which, for example, the Germans must still be held responsible for the massacre of thousands of Polish officers at Katyn, even though the Soviets have admitted to this.
The magistrates in Lyons who delivered these judgments have simply participated in a witch-hunt.
This is an issue which should be examined by this House, given that it is so keen to guarantee freedom of expression and civil liberties.
Mr President, I would like to answer the question about Mr Nikitin.
His trial is taking place in Russia and some time before the trial got under way, the European Union appealed that the person in question should have a trial that met the proper standards.
This trial is now also being followed by the Finnish representation in St. Petersberg.
We have likewise tried to have an influence on the proceedings through frequent discussions with the Russian authorities.
The EU practice is obviously that we take a position on the action of the court when a decision has been made.
I would like to point out that we have tried to follow the trial in its entirety.
This is one of those examples of issues which we could monitor more in the future, either in terms of subject matter or on a country-by-country basis.
I thank you for the debate thus far, and I will leave our worthy diplomats to follow the rest of it, in which I too would have liked to participate.
Mr President, like the previous speakers, I was going to start by welcoming this initiative from the Finnish Presidency.
It is therefore a pity that the President-in-Office of the Council left in the middle of the debate.
It does not seem right that we cannot have a proper debate when such an important document is presented. All we are going to get now is a continuous monologue without any response from the other party.
In that respect, my words are rather pointless.
However, following on from what was said by the two speakers who came before me - and with whom I disagree - I must say that the fact that Europe, and the European Union in particular, is making human rights its banner - in fact its only banner - is a marvellous thing.
This does not mean that everything is perfect and that there is nothing to correct; indeed, the report says as much.
The text could be improved upon in many respects - from the internal point of view, for instance -and certain paragraphs concerned with racism and xenophobia provide perfect examples of this.
An improvement could also be made by including in the text the EU' s contribution to the fight for human rights in the international sphere.
We are faced with a number of challenges and all of this is mentioned in this document which, I must repeat, is an excellent initiative and constitutes a remarkable inventory. I am only sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council is not present to hear this.
There are various initiatives which we could comment on if we had the time.
I will mention just one in which I think the European Union should be actively involved, namely the establishment of the International Criminal Court which would end the current situation in which the judicial instruments available to us are quite incapable of dealing with international requests for legal proceedings.
There is no doubt, Mr President, that with the tabling of this report, too, the public' s awareness of the importance of the topic of civil and human rights shows that we have taken another step forwards.
We have been considering, over the course of recent months and years, Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the reaffirmation of the importance and role in the European Union of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, and also the creation of the International Criminal Court and the need we all feel to give greater authority to Article 7 of the UN Charter in order to guarantee respect for human rights, eliminating any humanitarian intervention from rationales which are not based purely and simply on respect for these rights: all of this tells us that a great deal of progress has been made.
Nevertheless, fifty years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we know that no rights are won all in one go and once and for all: I am thinking of Tibet, Burma, Timor and Asian countries where child and women workers are exploited; I am thinking of Kosovo, Chechnya and Africa, a continent that is too often far away and forgotten; I am thinking of the 790 million people in the world who are suffering from hunger or the 300 million children who have to work; I am thinking of the 1625 executions carried out last year in the 72 countries whose legal systems still provide for capital punishment. Finally, I am also thinking of the fate of the Kurdish leader, Mr Öçalan, whose life has to be saved, I truly believe, through all of our efforts.
The very fact that capital punishment is so widespread is one of the most intolerable breaches of each individual' s dignity and right to life: a breach which we feel deeply and which we want to fight, for example, by pointing out that the actual enlargement process of the Union is proving to be not just a factor of peace and security for the continent, but also the way to make applicant states overcome such barbarity.
We know that it will be a long and difficult process; this was shown by the UN' s failure to debate the European Union resolution on the moratorium on capital punishment.
It was a serious and painful setback, and it is up to us, Members of Parliament, and the Commission, not to let this commitment lie: on the contrary, we must take it up with renewed vigour.
Mr President, at the moment, in the United States, in Virginia, the life of a young Italo-American who has been condemned to die but continues to declare his innocence is just one of the many lives which must be saved.
I am taking this opportunity to ask you, the President of Parliament, the President of the Council and the Commission, to take urgent action in making an appeal to the United States to suspend the execution of Derek Rocco Barnabei, because the battle against capital punishment is a battle for civilisation which must be fought every time it is necessary and in every way possible.
Mr President, according to Amnesty International, there are still 142 countries which ride roughshod over human rights, ranging from excessive police violence to tortures and killings.
This sober fact overshadows, I believe, the unmistakably positive developments in some countries.
More than anything, it places in perspective the memorable fact that an increasing number of countries are abolishing the death penalty and are signing major human rights treaties.
Never before has so much lip service been paid to human rights.
Never before has there been so much verbal condemnation without being followed up by sanctions.
Human rights violations are a blot on our civilisation, impunity even more so.
Nevertheless, we see, thinking of Rwanda for example, that the law is very slow in catching up with those responsible for the most gruesome violations of human integrity - if it does so at all.
As such, impunity causes more violations.
The truth is that human rights are still too often subordinated to commercial and other interests of Member States.
Unfortunately, there is no common strategy as yet.
This partly explains why we are so often overtaken by events.
Why did disaster have to strike East Timor, Kosovo and Rwanda first before something was done?
The international community often watches helplessly.
Our policy for human rights should be credible.
There is no room for double standards.
China and - to a lesser extent Russia - often remain out of harm' s way a lot longer than certain African regimes.
Some will term this selectivity.
I prefer to call it opportunism and a lack of courage.
The present report, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the first of its kind, deserves all credit and is a first step towards a consistent and coherent human rights policy to which the Council, Commission and Parliament, in a joint effort, should give their all.
Mr President, this Council report deserves credit and there is every reason to compliment the Finnish Presidency on its commitment, although I have to add that I deplore the fact that the Finnish presidency delegation has just left the Chamber.
There are mainly three reasons why I welcome the publication of this report.
Firstly, it is based on a coherent vision, a vision which rejects a hierarchy of types of human rights, but which emphasises their very interdependence.
The report also makes a first attempt to create coherence between the external and internal human rights policy of the European Union, especially the latter being a real innovative step.
It has to be said that, compared to Parliament, the Council appears to be leading the way.
Secondly, the report does not fall into the trap of presenting human rights as a European achievement but presupposes universality and adopts a global approach with a great deal of attention being paid to the EU' s action within the scope of the United Nations.
Thirdly, the report is the product of an organised dialogue with the social organisations involved in human rights issues.
The forum held here in Brussels over the past couple of days deserves a regular spot in the Union' s consultative network.
There are, however, also a few minus points to be noted.
The attempt within the EU to include self-evident human rights issues in the report is very biased to say the least. Why does discrimination on account of race or ethnic origin receive preferential treatment over, for example, discrimination against women and homosexuals, which does not feature or hardly features as an issue at all?
Could this be a taste of how the Council will handle the package of anti-discriminatory measures which the Commission proposed last week?
Why is no attention being given to other human rights issues prevalent within the Union, such as abuse in prisons or at police stations, killings by armed political groupings and the situation of conscientious objectors, to name only the most obvious issues?
The Council needs to summon up the political courage to spend more time on the internal human rights situation within the EU in the next annual report.
In this context, the proposal for a so-called "observation centre" must also be kept on the agenda.
After all, experience has taught us that collecting and analysing information is a prerequisite to achieving a sound human rights policy.
Mr President, in Belarus, the Christian Democrat parliamentarians Andrey Klimov and Vladimir Kudinov have disappeared without trace.
What has happened to these colleagues of ours?
One contributory and forward-looking feature of this report is the fact that it acknowledges the role not only of political decisions but also of civil society in creating an environment where human rights have the profound and enduring support of the people.
The value of this insight cannot be underestimated.
The right to life and respect for its inviolability are the basic human rights and therefore both the essence and goal of democracy.
At the same time, they express the Christian view of human life which, for two thousand years, has formed a precious part of Europe' s cultural and spiritual heritage and which, as we confront the new millennium, is a valuable asset for Europe to further build upon in the struggle for human rights.
The fact that the European Union has now started preparing annual reports on the ways in which human rights are respected within and outside the EU' s Member States is something which we Swedish Christian Democrats warmly welcome.
With the right to life as its theme, the EU should continue to maintain a consistent line on the death penalty and, especially via the United Nations, to challenge those countries which consider it to be ethically and morally acceptable to defend the State' s right to take another person' s life.
In the pressing work of extending the EU eastwards, demands for a moratorium on, and future abolition of, the death penalty have, in our own part of the world too, influenced ethical thinking and legislation in the direction of affirming human life.
The present report illuminates the frightening developments affecting the smallest among us, who are also those most precious to us, representing our own future, namely our children.
The fact that one million children on this earth work as prostitutes at the same time as dark forces disseminate child pornography is deeply alarming and causes a vast amount of bitterness.
On the basis of the right which children have to a father and mother and to secure conditions in which to grow up in a family environment, it is our common challenge, in the face of the new millennium, to allow children' s needs to be our guide in all the work that is done in society.
Mr President, of course, like many of those who have already spoken, I welcome the fact that the Council has now submitted a first annual report on human rights, as called for repeatedly by Parliament.
One important point which I would like to raise is the human rights clause in treaties with third countries, which has already been implemented on numerous occasions since 1995.
Human rights clauses are a fundamental part of these treaties.
People and their basic rights are therefore removed by means of a treaty from the powers of disposal of the other party to the treaty, despite the fact that we have always taken the view that insisting on human rights does not represent interference in the internal affairs of a country.
What is important as far as the practical implementation is concerned, is that both the EU Commission and the Member States have the political will in this particular instance not only to identify violations of human rights and hence of a fundamental part of the treaty, but also to apply the legal consequences provided for, which generally start with consultation and may lead to the suspension of parts or even the cancellation of the entire treaty.
But we all know what happens in practice.
Time and time again, human rights issues are pushed to one side or even considered to be counterproductive for irrelevant reasons.
Either a lucrative transaction hangs in the balance or the agreement or support of some government or other is needed, for example in a particular committee at UN level.
Luckily, non-governmental organisations working in this area cannot afford to take account of such false considerations and I would like to take this opportunity of thanking them with all my heart for their work.
And we Members of Parliament, both here and in our national parliaments, should likewise shun such considerations.
Denunciations of human rights violations are not merely sound bites in daily politics.
We have seen time and time again that the targets, i.e. the governments which are publicly accused of human rights violations, find such denunciations highly embarrassing and try to prevent them.
If we were to ensure that neither governments nor individual undertakings were willing to jeopardise the solidarity of the democratic community of states for the sake of concluding a treaty, these governments would have no opportunity of playing one off against the other.
A country such as China, to name one example, still needs our technology.
We should not ignore the plight of thousands of prisoners of conscience or suppressed national groups such as the Tibetans just so that we can build a new railway or ensure that a State visit proceeds smoothly.
I, too, therefore support the idea of adding another report to the report here and to the numerous other reports on the same subject.
I would like to see more details on individual countries in the next report, for example, on which occasions the Council or the Commission approached which government on a specific matter.
One might also offer during such discussions to refrain from mentioning the matter if it is cleared up by the time the next report is published.
We can afford to be flexible in form, but not in content!
Mr President, coordination and consistency are essential to a policy on human rights.
The Union should now be focusing on the effective implementation of agreements.
Implementation should cover three important areas: the monitoring of human rights, the establishment of human rights and the structures of a policy on human rights.
The EU must develop monitoring mechanisms to observe the human rights situation both within the EU and in third countries.
Monitoring must lead to a comprehensive assessment of the situation with regard to human rights.
That assessment must include an analysis of the human rights situation, a decision on measures to improve that situation, a programme to monitor the impact of the measures on the situation, an evaluation of their success and a public report on the assessment and its results.
It is important that we report on the problems within the EU as effectively and openly as on those in third countries.
In recent years, the EU has witnessed within its borders police violence, which has often been targeted against persons from outside the EU, cell deaths and discrimination against sexual minorities.
The lack of protection for refugees is perhaps the biggest human rights problem within the EU.
The Union policy on refugees, like that of the Member States, lags behind the standards we could expect from economically developed countries.
Matters relating to refugees and asylum are for us primarily matters of security and control.
The practice clearly contravenes the obligations of the Geneva Convention.
The common EU strategy on Russia should emphasise the importance of human rights.
Establishing human rights is one of the greatest challenges in the attempt to increase Russian prosperity and stability.
The human rights situation in Russia today is alarming.
The aims of security, stability and sustainable development associated with the northern dimension will only be of secondary importance if we neglect the issue of human rights.
It is time we realised the European Parliament' s idea of a monitoring body to be set up within the Commission to promote an efficient human rights policy and report on questions relating to human rights.
A respect for human rights and the protection of the rights of minorities are major requirements for accession to the Union.
Taking criteria relating to human rights and minorities as serious conditions of membership would require that these criteria and the obligations of applicant countries towards their minorities be accorded the same status as other fundamental criteria in the negotiations on membership.
Thank you.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Turkey
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
(A5-0071/1999) by Mr Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation regarding the implementation of measures to promote economic and social development in Turkey;
(A5-0070/1999) by Mr Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation regarding the implementation of measures to intensify the EC-Turkey Customs Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my reports follow on from the report published last year on Turkey by Mr McMillan-Scott and Mr Swoboda and from the resolution of this House of 6 October which concluded on the importance of expanding the European strategy for Turkey. This House should therefore be able tomorrow to adopt these two proposals for European Parliament and Council regulations on the implementation of measures, on one hand, to promote economic and social development in Turkey and, on the other, to intensify the EC-Turkey Customs Union.
The first proposal involves financing, over the next three years, up to a total of EUR 135 million based on Article 130 of the EC Treaty.
This requires the codecision procedure to be used. The second proposal which, over the same period, provides for a commitment of EUR 15 million, may come under a simple consultation procedure.
The EU is therefore prepared to resume the financial aid decided on in March 1995 under the Customs Union agreements. This aid has been blocked since then due to a lack of unanimity in Council.
I will not expand on the reasons for this blockage other than to say that the crisis in the Aegean played a major part. European concerns in the essential areas of respect for human rights and the protection of ethnic minorities were also very much taken into consideration.
In this respect, the forum which was requested by this House should have an important role to play. It could use the existing structures, particularly within the Economic and Social Committee of the European Community.
The proposals for regulations submitted for our approval will, under these conditions, help to encourage the continuation of the current political development.
They contain a clause authorising the Council to take the appropriate steps if it were proven that the most basic rights were being violated in Turkey.
This clause stipulates that either this House or the Commission could propose suspension to the Council.
I must stress that if we care about the coherence of the strategy adopted and approved by this House in recent months, we should avoid introducing, through our amendments, any measures which would block the process that has been started.
We must not lose sight of the importance of encouraging a fruitful dialogue with Turkey, if only, for example, for obvious geostrategic reasons.
Finally, as a reminder, although the provisions establishing all this aid involve financing over three years of EUR 150 million, the European Union' s trade surplus with Turkey has doubled since the entry into force on 1 January 1996 of the Customs Union agreement, thereby increasing in four years from EUR 4 billion to EUR 8 billion.
I truly believe that the Community must now honour its previous commitments so as not to discourage all those in Turkey who are resolutely committed to the Customs Union route and who have therefore decided to attach their country to the European Economic Area.
On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I want to recommend the Morillon reports.
The Committee on Budgets' amendments have been integrated into the reports, and one could wish for nothing better.
In the Commission' s proposals concerning resources for promoting economic and social development in Turkey and for extending the Customs Union between the European Community and Turkey, it is proposed that the period 2000-2002 should be covered, because the year is now so far advanced that it is too late to establish new budget headings for this purpose in 1999.
The Committee on Budgets also wishes reference to be made to the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May of this year and for it to be stated that the recommended amounts for the period 2000-2002 should constitute a portion of the multiannual financial framework for the MEDA programme so that it is apparent that we are not concerned here with a new expenditure item.
Ever since the European Council confirmed in December 1997 that Turkey could apply for membership of the EU, efforts have been made to create the opportunity to provide financial aid with a view to promoting economic cooperation and bringing Turkey closer to the EU.
This, then, is the background to these proposals, on the one hand, for a three-year subsidy of EUR 15 million when a start is made on implementing the Community' s regulations and developing the Customs Union between the EC and Turkey and, on the other hand, for the subsidy of EUR 135 million for developing the economically backward regions of Turkey.
These resources therefore have nothing to do with the special subsidy, proposed in the budget for the year 2000, for reconstruction and aid in connection with the earthquakes in Turkey.
In 1998 and 1999, Turkey was allocated grants under the MEDA programme, the European Parliament' s having approved the Commission' s programmes following participation in an interinstitutional working party. The Committee on Budgets also decided that this working party should be maintained during the reading of the Budget for the year 2000.
I have just one technical remark on Amendment No 15 in the report concerning economic cooperation where it is stated that the Council (with a qualified majority) or the European Parliament can decide to suspend the partnership.
We are talking here about joint decision making, so the Council cannot decide without Parliament' s being heard.
This is just by way of clarifying the interpretation of this proposal.
Finally, I should say that, this year, the policy-making process has been delayed by the parliamentary election and by the special circumstances in connection with the Commission' s departure.
It is good that a resolution can now be adopted to press ahead with the financial aid in accordance with the political conditions linked to the grants.
Mr President, Mr Morillon is to be congratulated for producing these reports in very difficult circumstances and with very little time. We are all in his debt and his reward has been the favourable vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
These reports clearly respond to commitments made by the European Union.
The Customs Union with Turkey has to be accompanied by special budget aid and a series of special loans from the European Investment Bank, in addition to the programmes provided for under the MEDA programme and procedure.
This aid consists of two types of measure.
The first is aimed at strengthening economic and social cohesion and overcoming the regional development inequalities within the country.
The other is intended to help Turkey gradually gain access to the Community market, take on the acquis communautaire and intensify the Customs Union.
For this last objective, a three-year multiannual framework of EUR 15 million is provided.
As no budget cover exists for these amounts in 1999, the multiannual financial framework of the programme will have to be extended by one year to 2002, as mentioned today by the rapporteur. The appropriations for 1999 will also have to be included in the draft supplementary and amending budget.
It is impossible to separate the Morillon report from the general context of relations with Turkey.
We have today debated with the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission the problems which have occurred, the proposals made by the European Commission in its report on the Helsinki Summit and also the position which the Council of Ministers will presumably adopt.
This House adopted a resolution in October which clearly marks the line which should be followed by the European Parliament. However, as stated today by Mr Poettering, on behalf of my group, there are some disagreements within our group as to the importance, nature and scope to be attributed to Turkey' s application.
I particularly believe, and I said this in the debate in October, that for the first time all the pieces of the Turkish jigsaw are on the table, namely the problems of the Aegean islands, Cyprus, human rights and ethnic minorities.
A major debate is currently in progress on the ratification of the death penalty imposed on Mr Öçalan.
I agree with the rapporteur that the vote on these reports should not now be taken off the agenda.
This House has made an inescapable commitment to a moratorium on the death penalty, as we did in the debate in the last plenary part-session, on which I understand the President has written to the Turkish authorities. I therefore feel that the European Union must honour its commitments and, at the same time, recognise that nobody has been executed in Turkey for fifteen years.
This must not lead us to forget the commitment we have made to the defence of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the ethnic minorities in Turkey.
In my opinion, we must be very clear and send an unambiguous message to the Turkish authorities about what they can expect from us and what their corresponding rights are.
We must be extremely clear in this respect, by stressing that they are entitled to apply but that it is not in our interest to start these accession negotiations until the Copenhagen criteria, and the political commitments in particular, have been met.
The European Union' s commitment must be to therefore very firmly support the excellent reports presented by Mr Morillon.
Mr President, these two reports which the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports - and we should like to thank Mr Morillon for the work he has put into them - is an important contribution to Turkey' s rapprochement with Europe.
I agree, however, with Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra that these reports are part of a larger pattern in our relationship with Turkey.
I think that the most important message which is coming out of the European Union at the present time is that Turkey is entitled to apply for membership of the Union.
It might well be said that this is an opportunity which Turkey has had for almost thirty-five years, ever since the Association Agreement.
It is, however, important that we point this out at the present time.
We need a democratically stable, socially and economically developed Turkey in the European partnership.
That is important for our security and our future in Europe.
For us, the views of the democrats in Turkey and of those struggling for human rights within organisations dedicated to that purpose are obviously very significant. Almost all of these people are in favour of Turkey being regarded as an candidate country.
The Kurdish question, the issue of Cyprus, torture and breaches of human rights are also, at a serious level, European matters which will be discussed, examined and dealt with at different monitoring stations within the European Union.
In this way, resolutions and the war of words will be translated into the genuine work of reform involving clear and agreed goals.
At a big international seminar two weeks ago, arranged by the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, all the Turkish parties, including the old Welfare Party, declared themselves in favour of applicant states such as Turkey becoming members of the European Union.
For Turkey, this now means that matters have become serious.
The move must now be made from ambitions and intentions to the purposeful work of reform in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria.
For our part, we now want to challenge the Turkish government to translate their words into action and show that they are serious in their endeavour to enter the European partnership.
We should then demonstrate that we too are serious about their efforts.
Mr President, it is a pleasure to welcome the two outstanding reports put forward by Mr Morillon, and I turn first to the report which he has prepared on Customs Union to say how much we welcome that report in which we must remind Turkey that she too has to play her part.
The European Union has made major efforts over a number of years to ensure this Customs Union is successful, and Turkey herself must now ensure that she fulfils the role that she is called upon to play.
I also support what is perhaps the more contentious report.
It is a welcome report on economic and social development in Turkey and was supported in the Committee for Foreign Affairs this week.
Here the joint forum has to be of major importance, and again both sides must fulfil their role.
We are, of course, confident that we will do so. We remain confident that Turkey will also.
In this period of time before Helsinki, it is vital that we look too at the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities, protection and recognition of their cultural identity and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment, one of the amendments that came before our committee to the Morillon report this week.
We have, of course, the unhappy fact of one death penalty upheld in Turkey at this very moment.
But I believe there is good news that we can focus on even in that tragic situation where the possibility of a citizen losing his life at the hands of the State is upheld by the Court of Appeal.
May I remind my colleagues here today that Turkey has not used the death penalty in practice since 1984.
There has been an effective moratorium in place since then with the result that 53 people who were defined as subject to what we would call cruel and inhuman punishment, have had their cases put on one side.
At the moment the Minister for the European Council and Human Rights, is reported in today's issue of Milliyet, the daily paper, as being firmly against capital punishment.
There is a new law coming to the Turkish Parliament in the year 2000, put forward by academics, in which for the first time ever the proposed criminal justice bill does not contain the death penalty.
Let us hope and believe that in this year 2000, Turkey's commitment to our millennium year globally will be the abolition of the death penalty once and for all through the democratic parliamentary process.
Mr President, the European Union is about to take a major decision which may change relations with Turkey radically.
The Commission has proposed that Turkey should be accorded candidate status.
If the Council in Helsinki accepts this proposal, it would lay the foundations in Turkey for a new form of dialogue with the European Union, in that Ankara would then have the prospect of future membership.
It would also mean that the Union would have to keep its promises.
The rapporteur' s proposals allow the mistakes of 1995 to be corrected, when the European Union intensified relations with Turkey, without guaranteeing the necessary financial aid.
Financial aid for Turkey cannot be divorced from obligations in the fields of social development and democracy, rule of law and respect for human and minority rights.
This is referred to equally in both reports because it is important that participation in the European economic system should go hand in glove with democratic development.
Another important point is the involvement of the European Parliament.
Its debates can provide further transparency and raise the political and democratic profile of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
The case of Öçalan - I am referring to the death penalty - raises the question of how we will have to deal with such issues in the future.
There can be only one response from all the political groups in this House and that is the demand that capital punishment be abolished.
It is not a question of making an angel of peace of Öçalan.
On the contrary, we need to demonstrate that respect for human rights means much more than empty rhetoric, of course it does, and not just in Turkey.
This House should call on Turkey to comply with the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights, which is incompatible with the execution of Öçalan.
I can read Turkish and I am pleased that, so far, I have seen no reports of negative reactions from the government in Ankara in the Turkish press or in other Turkish media.
That gives me reason to hope.
Despite everything said about Turkey today, it is important for us to pursue the new Turkish policy of the European Union.
In this sense we support the two reports as a contribution to the democratisation of Turkey.
Mr President, as far as the content of the two reports is concerned, I would find it relatively easy to support them, despite certain shortcomings.
They succeed in presenting the political requirements of cooperation with Turkey clearly and consistently, especially the need for compliance with, and development of, human rights, including the rights of the Kurdish people, the demand for the abolition of capital punishment, the strengthening of the civil society, greater involvement by non-governmental organisations and the abolition of social deprivation and regional under-development.
The fact that these changes were necessary reflects badly on the Commission.
The fact that they were possible reflects well on the parliamentary committee and the work of Mr Morillon.
Nonetheless, my decision has been made extraordinarily difficult.
The Commission maintains in its proposal that a process of democratisation and promotion of human rights has been introduced in Turkey and we heard similar words from Mr Prodi this afternoon.
The committee, on the other hand, only talks clearly of the need for such a process, but not of an allegedly positive development already under way.
Not only does that appear to be decidedly more realistic to me; it also tallies with the evaluation which the Commission itself made in a communication to the Cologne Summit on 3 and 4 June this year.
Twice it says that it sees no noticeable improvement, at least on the Kurdish question, and it rates any chance of further improvement as doubtful given the rise of, in the Commission' s words, the ultra-nationalist MHP party.
I am most baffled as to what our optimism is actually based on and why the Commission has circulated two contradictory assessments.
From where I stand, it appears perfectly clear that there has been no real, positive development in the issues raised.
The Turkish Vice-Premier Bahcelý of the MHP stated in connection with the upholding of the death sentence on Öçalan - perhaps it only appeared in the German newspapers - that Europe should not be encouraged to interfere even more boldly in Turkish affairs and President Ecevit expressed the view that a judgement by the Court of Justice in Strasbourg need not be accepted.
That clearly contradicts the commitments entered into by Turkey as a member of the Council of Europe.
Their own international legal commitments continue to be openly disregarded by Turkish officials when it comes to human rights.
I consider the honest offer of membership of the European Union to Turkey to be strategically correct and necessary.
The European Union must have room for and an interest in including Turkey and must clarify that unequivocally once and for all.
However, there can be no cutting back on demands for democratisation of the constitution and political realities, fundamental improvements in respect for human rights, a political solution to the Kurdish question and an end to the occupation of northern Cyprus.
All this is still outstanding.
Tomorrow we must adopt either the Commission version or the committee version of Article 3(2).
Both versions contain terms for suspending cooperation in the event of fundamental violations of human rights.
I see these violations and therefore consider that it is wrong to pass this text at this point in time. That would push our own paper and our own credibility ad absurdum.
My group therefore is in favour under these circumstances of deferring both reports.
We sent a proper signal to the Russian Government in a similar situation two weeks ago.
We should handle this matter in the same way.
Mr President, at a time when the European Parliament is deciding on new forms of support for Turkey, we would like to point out that we are amongst those who say that Turkey must be helped and deserves to be helped in its process of transition to full democracy.
I would even go so far as to say that the European Union should encourage cooperation between its Member States and Turkey.
The reports that we are debating here today nevertheless give us the opportunity to reflect once again on Turkey' s progress in terms of human rights and the protection of minorities.
In this context, we were extremely concerned to hear of the confirmation by the Supreme Court in Turkey of the death sentence on Öçalan.
I am a Member of the European Parliament for Portugal, a country that abolished the death penalty as long ago as the 19th Century.
We were, moreover, the first European Union country to do so.
Personally, I reject this form of punishment, both out of conviction and because I do not think that it achieves any of the aims that punishment seeks to achieve.
Consequently, we feel that it would now be timely to give yet another very clear signal that the preservation of human rights and the protection of minorities in Turkey are still an essential condition for the European Parliament to show its solidarity in terms of cooperation and support for that country.
Mr President, I would like to point out that just yesterday, here in Strasbourg, the European Court of Human Rights accepted a request for a stay of execution for Öçalan whilst it examines the case.
I was also pleased to read that President Nicole Fontaine reacted speedily to the confirmation of this sentence and I also read that she would intervene with the President of the Turkish National Assembly in order that it should not confirm the carrying out of the death sentence.
I do not know if she was able to obtain any guarantees from him or not.
My feeling is that the European Parliament should look with the utmost caution at developments, not just in this case but also in Turkey' s human rights situation, and in the protection of its minorities, and this caution should be matched with an equal degree of firmness.
To this effect, tomorrow I shall propose - contrary to what others here appear to think should be done - that we postpone voting on the two reports until a later sitting, and I would therefore ask the President of the European Parliament on behalf of the institution over which she presides, to formulate a clear request to the Helsinki European Council that if the decision by the Turkish authorities stands, the Council should adopt a firm position with regard to Turkey' s application to join the European Union.
I think that only in this way will the European Parliament be effectively and unambiguously defending principles and values rather than just stating them.
Mr President, I have spoken out several times in favour of Mr Öçalan, but I have to say that the debate on Turkey must not focus solely on the case of President Öçalan' s death sentence, because Turkey as a whole is undemocratic; in Turkey, human rights are not respected.
I visited Turkey as a member of the Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I therefore think I am speaking after due consideration.
It is not only the Öçalan case which leads me say that Turkey is not yet ready to apply: Mr Öçalan, among other things, was practically handed over by the D' Alema Government - a black mark against Italy' s name - but on the other hand, it was precisely from the Italian Penal Code that Turkey borrowed article 155 of its own Penal Code, which permitted Mr Öçalan to be condemned - article 155 of the Turkish Penal Code was copied from article 241 of the Italian Penal Code - and therefore I was not in the least surprised by the position of the Italian Government on this case either.
Be that as it may, Turkey still has the death penalty: well, while it is hard to change the mentality of the police and change the situation in the prisons, a law is, nevertheless, sufficient and a parliamentary vote is sufficient to abolish the death penalty, which is what many countries in the European Union have done.
How one can have capital punishment and at the same time ask to join the European Union is something that still astounds me, but I am even more astonished that there is talk of granting candidate status to a country that has not yet abolished capital punishment.
For this reason too, therefore, I am in favour of postponing the vote.
Mr President, we support the reports drafted by Mr Morillon on the promotion of economic and social development in Turkey and the strengthening of the Customs Union between the European Union and said country, especially in light of the fact that this country was twice struck by earthquakes this year.
Indeed, it is the exactly the latter circumstance which threatens to thwart the Ecevit Government' s opportune intention of starting to eliminate the grinding socio-economic disadvantage of the Turkish south-eastern provinces.
The rapporteur is right in stipulating that EU-financed projects and programmes, in particular, should benefit those sections of the Turkish population who are lagging behind.
However, we do not wish to conceal the fact that we certainly would not want to interpret this helping hand from Brussels to Ankara as a political gesture pointing towards candidate status vis-à-vis the EU.
In our opinion, the agreed Customs Union offers plenty of scope for Turkey to be given opportunities for development.
As far as we are concerned, the highest level of European cooperation with Turkey has been reached with this effort.
Quite significantly, the appeals made to Turkey by the rapporteur and other submitters of amendments, to finally walk the difficult path to becoming a democratic constitutional State, are in line with our fundamental objections to confirming Ankara' s candidate status. Why does the European Union not speak in plain terms?
False hope on both sides would, in any case make us fear for a speedy relapse into the old situation of "cold friendship" .
Mr President, I wish to congratulate General Morillon on his report and also recognise the important contribution made by his predecessor in this work, Edward McMillan Scott.
Let me just take a slightly different tack to that pursued by a number of the previous speakers.
I really believe that we should be talking in more encouraging tones to Turkey at the moment.
Many of us wish to see positive progress in the development of the Union's relations with Turkey, and it is most important therefore that obstacles to the provision of EU financial aid for Turkey are removed as soon as possible.
Not only that, but in recognition of Turkey's candidate status, which we trust will be endorsed and taken forward shortly by the European Council in Helsinki, we should be thinking in terms of a more ambitious programme of assistance.
After all, the measures proposed are aimed at enabling Turkey to put in place the necessary structural adjustments resulting from the Customs Union which operates very much at the moment in the European Union's favour.
Mr Prodi, when he was speaking to this House on 13 October, suggested that an accession partnership similar to the partnerships established with the official candidate countries would also help Turkey move steadily towards meeting the membership criteria.
It is recognised that accession negotiations cannot commence until the political criteria are met but we must give Turkey every assistance to get to this stage.
In Parliament's resolution of 6 October, we resolved to work speedily on the technical and financial assistance necessary to complete the Customs Union; and we called on the Council to support the necessary measures.
We have now reached that stage and trust that Council will be wholly supportive of our proposals.
We should also be prepared to begin consideration of measures that will help bring Turkey closer to our values and our economic approach.
Mr President, I should like, first of all, to congratulate General Morillon on his excellent report.
The Morillon report provides us with a good opportunity to discuss a European strategy for Turkey without beating about the bush.
I am sure we all agree that, in the European Union, no issue has been as controversial and given rise to as much tension and opposition as that of relations between the European Union and Turkey, and this is understandable, because Turkey has nothing in common with any other country involved in the enlargement process.
The other twelve countries together create fewer problems than Turkey does alone: economic and social problems, problems relating to human rights, democracy and respect for minorities.
In short, it has created problems of security and stability in south-east Europe by basing its foreign policy either on open violence, as in Cyprus where it continues to occupy the northern part of the island, or on the threat of violence, as when the Turkish parliament officially stated that if Greece exercised its sovereign rights in territorial waters in the Aegean this would be a casus belli.
The question of a European strategy for Turkey is basically quite simple.
The European Union is not going to change for Turkey' s sake, but Turkey is going to battle to become a European country.
Europe is not going to become Turkish; Turkey is going to become European.
The European strategy for Turkey must make clear to the Turkish political classes and to Turkish society that there is not going to be a separate set of rules for Turkey and that Turkey must meet all the criteria set in Copenhagen and Luxembourg if its European prospects are to prosper.
The Union must make it clear in the run up to Helsinki that it should respect international law on Cyprus.
The Union must make it clear that the integration process for Cyprus will continue, regardless of any form of blackmail by Turkey.
The Union must ensure that all applicant countries, Turkey included, respect international treaties and international law and cooperate with neighbouring countries to promote peace, and that any disputes are resolved through international law and international judicial bodies, such as the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
Yes, Turkey should become a member of the Union but it should leave violence, unlawfulness and autocracy outside Europe' s door and enter in peace and democracy.
That is what the Turkish people want and it is what its neighbour Greece and its fellow citizens want.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Free Alliance has not approved of Customs Union in the past.
The majority in this Parliament did approve following tortuous debates since approval would encourage the Turkish Government to arrive at an acceptable human rights policy, true democracy and a political solution to end the Kurdish issue.
We find that the outcome is not altogether convincing.
With the sentencing to death of the Kurdish leader Öçalan and confirmation thereof, we are once again faced with the tragic consequences of an unresolved request for respect and right of self-determination on behalf of a people, the Kurdish people, in Turkey.
In Turkey, a great deal of pressure is being exerted by various parties and groups on Turkish society to demand the execution of Öçalan.
Turkey is not yet ready to abolish the death sentence by a long shot, even if the death sentence is not actually carried out.
Turkey has to provide us with a guarantee that the life of Öçalan will be spared.
If this is not the case, the hope that a political solution will be reached for the Kurdish issue in Turkey will once again be dashed.
The despair of the Kurds will not do much for stability in our countries either.
We know that thousands of Kurds live here.
I would nevertheless like to join in the congratulations extended to the rapporteur, as the text of his report is, in many ways, an improvement on the Commission' s proposal.
One could say that the financial support follows on from earlier decisions reached by us.
But think it through: if we vote on the text, the report stipulates that financial cooperation can be suspended in the event that the democratic principles of the constitutional State, human rights or fundamental liberties are violated. Does this not imply that, if we grant financial benefits today, the goalposts for human rights, etc. have already been set and that, consequently, only a deterioration of the current situation could lead to suspension?
As far as we are concerned, the goalposts of these measures do not go far enough.
We would like to see the situation in Turkey drastically improve in terms of democratisation and human rights and in terms of a solution to the Kurdish issue, but we hope that this is possible without having to exert financial pressure.
Mr President, because of our feelings of solidarity and fraternity with the people of Turkey, we oppose that country' s accession into the European Union because, as the experience of the Greek people has shown, the Turkish people have nothing positive to gain from it.
However, we are being urged to vote in favour of the two regulations and the release of the relevant appropriations to Turkey, both because it has made significant progress towards democratisation and in order to encourage it to go still further in that direction.
Contrary to claims by the Council and the Commission to the effect that democracy is progressing in Turkey, claims which demonstrate that the first to benefit from progress are the multinationals, it is blindingly obvious that the situation has, in fact, deteriorated.
So what is happening today?
Turkey is still illegally occupying 38% of Cyprus in full contravention of international law, it is continuing with its provocations against Greece; it is still engaged in barbarous ethnic cleansing and genocide against the Kurdish people; it still insists on resolving the Kurdish issue through military intervention and it is continuing its military operations against the Kurds in Northern Iraq.
Over 12 000 political prisoners are being held in its prisons where torture and murder are an everyday occurrence.
Leila Zana, winner of the Sakharov prize, is still in prison, as are three Kurdish parliamentarians and famous writers and journalists.
Recently, twelve political prisoners protesting against inhumane prison conditions were murdered.
Then there is the case of Mr Öçalan who, aside from the inhumane way in which he was abducted and imprisoned, was sentenced to death in a mockery of a trial, and whose sentence was unanimously upheld two days ago by the Turkish Supreme Court of Appeal.
That shows just how sensitive the Ankara authorities really are to appeals for democratisation.
Secondly, we are told that if we accept these regulations and release these appropriations, it will help the democratisation process.
We were told the same thing when the Customs Union was signed five years ago.
However, neither the constitution nor the criminal code has been democratised. The death penalty has still not been abolished, nor has the Kurdish issue been resolved politically and, according to statements by Turkish ministers, the Cyprus question "is no longer an issue" .
So, believe me, if we vote in favour of the two regulations under discussion, despite their positive aspects, then this will certainly encourage the Turkish regime, which claims that Turkey is the most advanced democracy in all of Europe, to tighten its existing policies.
We do not want to hit the forces fighting for true democracy, we want to send a message of solidarity to prisoners and push for real democratisation of the regime, which is why we urge you to vote against these two reports or, at least, to refer them back to the committee until such time as Turkey shows tangible evidence of democratisation and respect for international law.
Mr President, once again, a few weeks after the debate on extending the SOCRATES programme to young people in Turkey, Parliament is going back to addressing the controversial issue of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
This time, instead of culture, the nature of the European intervention is intended to support the social and economic development of the Mediterranean country and, for the umpteenth time, the question that we are all silently asking ourselves remains: can, and indeed should, the European Union in any way support a State that is geographically close, if not contiguous, surrounded by the same sea that washes upon the coasts of Southern Europe, even if that State appears extremely distant as regards respect for human rights?
We are disappointed to note that since 1996, the year when the Aegean Sea crisis led the European Community to block the agreement on the Customs Union with Turkey, no headway has been made towards obtaining total respect for civil rights and the protection of minorities.
While the Turkish Government has made some half-hearted attempts in recent years, the recent death sentence placed on the Kurdish leader, Mr Öçalan, has made any possible political rapprochement between Turkey and the European Union more remote.
And yet, as we have maintained several times in this Chamber, the process of a community' s democratic growth also occurs through its economic and social development.
To deny the financial aid proposed by the Commission for the next three years for the development of the Customs Union would, especially at this tragic time when this Mediterranean country is on its knees following a terrible catastrophe, contribute to exacerbating a downward spiral with unimaginable consequences to Turkey.
To conclude, the Italian delegation from Alleanza Nazionale thinks it more sensible to have a carefully considered acceptance of cooperation with Turkey, subordinating it to specific, tangible actions to bring its government into line with western European democracies.
Democracy has a price, Mr President: asking Turkey to pay it is an act not of weakness, but of great responsibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to start by thanking Mr Morillon for his extremely factual report and his conscious effort to stick to the point.
Commissioner, because we have heard some criticism of the Commission, I would like to congratulate you and your officials, who are with us today, for the committed approach which they take to this issue, and for always communicating and discussing matters with Parliament.
Of course, assessments sometimes turn out differently in various Commission documents and papers.
But perhaps that has more to do with erratic Turkish policy, which sometimes makes more and sometimes makes less progress.
But anyone who sees things as they really are will note that some progress has been made over recent months and it deserves acknowledgement.
We must not fail to take the matter seriously, as some previous speakers have said and done, for to do otherwise would only give succour to the Turkish government!
What I wonder is: how come Akim Birdal is in favour of introducing a new strategy, how come other Kurdish representatives are in favour of our introducing a new strategy, how come the entire opposition to the government and civil society are in favour of our introducing a new strategy if all it does is support the government?
I should like to extend my special thanks to the Greek government and to foreign secretary Papandreou; that was a courageous step, especially in light of domestic political relations.
It was also a highly risky step which was clearly also motivated by the situation in Cyprus and the attempt to bring Cyprus closer to the European Union and find a political solution to the Cyprus question.
So we are not uncritical of Turkey; on the contrary.
I repeat, Turkey would be a lot further down the road to Europe if it had applied fundamentally different measures in the field of human rights and minority rights in good time, at the right time, especially with regard to the Kurdish question, democracy in relation to Greece and a contribution towards solving the problem in Cyprus.
But if the Council decides in the next few days - I say if - to officially recognise Turkey as a candidate, then Turkey must realise that the ball is in its court.
Then it will be up to Turkey to make the next move, because we will have made a move, partly in response to the minor changes which we have seen, partly in anticipation of what might, should and must follow.
But then the ball will be in Turkey' s court and it is up to Turkey to make the next move if further progress is to be made in bringing Turkey and Europe closer together.
We want to have Turkey in the European Union, but Turkey knows full well that only a Turkey which recognises the Copenhagen criteria can become a member of the European Union.
Every candidate country knows that and Turkey should know it too.
I trust that it will soon take steps to meet these criteria.
It will, without doubt, take a number of years, but the more quickly Turkey acts, the more quickly it will become a member of the European Union.
Mr President, I do not know if it is symbolic in any way that the report on these issues was put forward by one of our colleagues, who happens to be a General.
This distinguished colleague endeavoured to improve the Commission' s proposals.
However, we should refer both these texts back, because we are not a schizophrenic parliament which says one thing for Chechnya and another for Turkey.
We cannot afford to be a parliament which is politically dead.
The Helsinki Summit takes place in a few days' time.
And what will our message be?
Everything' s fine?
We have adopted the regulations?
Never mind about Öçalan?
Never mind, look at it from a tourist' s perspective!
In Greece, Turkey and the Eastern Mediterranean, we slaughter a cock and daub its blood over the foundations of a new house.
Never mind if Öçalan is sacrificed or is in danger of being sacrificed over the foundations of Turkey' s accession to the European Union?
Is that what we are going to say to the Summit? And for what?
For two regulations, one of which is illegal and pure sleight of hand. It has made Turkey, an applicant country, out to be a developing country so as to get round the unanimity rule in the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
In my view, the European Parliament should stand its ground and should allow not only Turkey but also the Turkish people into the European Union and, in the process, it should intervene to give the Turkish people the rights they have so far been denied.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Morillon, because the Turkey dossier, as we have seen, is not an easy dossier.
We have discussed it a lot lately; today we are debating two proposals for regulations on strengthening the Customs Union and on interventions that aim to improve Turkey' s economic and social development.
We are doing this on the eve of the Helsinki European Council, where Turkey' s possible application to join the European Union will be decided, and we are doing this in a context in which we have seen Mr Abdullah Öçalan' s death sentence confirmed by the Turkish Supreme Court, followed by a request for a stay of execution from the European Court of Human Rights and a declaration by the Turkish authorities, delivered by Prime Minister Ecevit, that they would prefer the legal process to be completed, including the appeal by the defence lawyers, before making the government' s position known and before putting the issue before parliament.
Therefore, the matter is not closed and, once again, it falls to us to choose a strategy.
I believe that Parliament has decided to invest in the democratic growth of this country.
But our alternative is not a choice between, on the one hand, a position where there is a complete refusal to cooperate, as is currently the case, and on the other hand, an uncritical acceptance of events.
I would remind all Members of parliamentary Amendment No 11, which lets us keep control of the way this cooperation will develop.
The fact remains that, together with the wider picture, mentioned by many Members, and Mr Swoboda was the last person to do so, the fate of Mr Abdullah Öçalan is still a pressing matter that must be resolved once and for all.
Today, President Prodi told us that, so as not to sour Turkey' s attitude, its application to join the Union will be legitimised at Helsinki.
This is a major step forwards, but it is a shame that Turkey has not taken any such positive steps.
We are all indignant at the confirmation of the death sentence on President Öçalan, we are all united in asking for a gesture from the Turkish Government, and then there is the moratorium on capital punishment: it is likely that the sentence will be suspended, despite the government' s grave decision not to respond to the request from the Court in Strasbourg.
Of course, this is not without importance, but is it enough to convince us that Turkey has its house in order so it can join the Union?
No.
Every day in Turkey human rights are violated: there are thousands of political prisoners, and union and religious freedoms, freedom of opinion and minorities' freedoms are repressed.
In the light of the extraordinary event and unilateral actions for peace, whereby the PKK chose to abandon the armed struggle and implement a ceasefire, and in the light of numerous leaders of the PKK choosing to turn themselves in to the Turkish authorities in order to reaffirm their choice of wishing to negotiate for peace, the Turkish Government gave only negative and scornful responses.
Some young Kurdish refugees visiting the European Parliament asked us: will you help us return to our villages?
They have been destroyed - will you help us rebuild them?
As much as I welcome and am grateful for the content of the Morillon report, I think that we must send out a strong signal by postponing this decision until the Turkish Government confirms the stay of execution and begins talks to find a solution to the Kurdish question.
There can be no double standards when it comes to the right to live.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the two regulations being debated here today have in fact nothing to do with the debates which will be held in the General Council next Monday and in the European Council in Helsinki a few days later, I am of course aware of the fact that the political context and timing cannot be ignored here and that we must naturally discuss the overall problem of relations between the European Union and Turkey in conjunction with these two regulations and that is what most speakers have done here this evening.
I am most grateful for the debate which has been held here because it was a highly factual debate which made very valuable and important points, especially for the attention of Turkey, because Turkey will have to gauge the political mood which prevails in Europe towards its application to join the European Union.
Firstly, however, I would like to extend my most sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Morillon, for the two reports which he has submitted and to express my appreciation to him and to Mr McMillan-Scott and Mr Schwaiger for their contributions.
I think the report is so important because the European Parliament subscribes in it to the view that the European strategy represents a suitable way of extending relations between the European Union and Turkey and that financial support is needed in order to implement the strategy.
Allow me to take this opportunity to explain once again the change in strategy towards Turkey, and I certainly do not take what Mr Brie said as a reproach.
If a new Commission is not to be allowed to change the position of previous Commissions which it considers wrong, then we have no further need of a Commission.
We could use robots which just keep on applying whatever was said once at some time in the past.
I think that Mr Brie of all people will understand that you are not always willing to be arrested for something which your predecessors did.
Otherwise we could have an interesting debate on your own predecessors, couldn' t we?
I just wanted to make that clear.
What the change involves is something quite different.
The fact is that we must recognise that our previous strategies towards Turkey have not had any visible success.
We can hold endless discussions as to the reason, but the fact remains that the findings made here, that progress in Turkey is unsatisfactory, are correct.
So the question which arises is: can we do anything to change this?
The proposal made by the Commission, and which I hope Helsinki will support, is to set a parallel process in motion so that the two processes dovetail.
On the one hand, we want to bring Turkey into the European Union using precisely the instruments used to bring other candidates in and, on the other, we want to see, in parallel, a fundamental change in Turkey itself.
I repeat, a fundamental change.
I can report from my discussions with the Turkish Prime Minister and from several meetings with the Turkish Foreign Secretary over the last few days that the Turkish Government is fully aware of the need for this fundamental change in the political, economic, social and cultural areas.
More than that, I am convinced that the present Turkish Government and the parliamentary majority behind it also want this fundamental change.
At some point now we must break the vicious circle.
There is no sense in saying: once Turkey has already done certain things, then maybe we will say yes, because then Turkey will give the standard response: as Europe does not keep its promises, we have no clear European prospects and we cannot therefore negotiate the risk-strewn path to reform.
We could carry on like this for years and nothing would change, which is why the attempt being made now is reasonable, bodes well and is under our control at all times.
That is important because we do not of course want to bring a country into the European Union which, we must one day admit, will not meet the political criteria.
For the rest, it is wrong to say that there have been no interesting developments in Turkey recently.
I would like to quote just three.
As far as foreign policy is concerned, there is no question that we are witnessing a rapprochement between Greece and Turkey which we would have considered impossible six months ago.
That is not only thanks to the contribution of the Greek Government, which I have a very high opinion of and hold in great esteem; it is also thanks to the Turkish Government.
I would like to mention just one of the minor consequences of this rapprochement: when Greek and Turkish journalists work together to stop the propaganda which we have followed for years in the main media in their countries and to stop people from being wrongly informed about what is happening in their neighbouring country, then I call that very real progress indeed.
The second point is that we shall probably witness the passing of a very important law on human rights in Turkey before Helsinki.
For the first time in the history of Turkey, there will be a law which allows members of the civil service, i.e. officials, to be brought to trial for violating human rights. For example, people allegedly responsible for torture will be brought to trial.
We take that for granted in our countries, but for Turkey it is unprecedented.
The third point I would like to make is that the Turkish Minister responsible for European integration and human rights - an interesting remit, but one which goes well together - has officially stated, following the upholding of the death sentence by the Court of Appeal, that it is not in Turkey' s interest to carry out this death sentence.
Without wishing to betray confidentiality, I can go so far as to say here that my impression is that, while the proceedings in Strasbourg are under way, the Turkish Government does not want, under any circumstances, to take a decision on the execution; their strategy is rather to use the time gained by the proceedings in Strasbourg to abolish capital punishment in Turkey.
I should like at this point to appeal again most urgently to Turkey to do so as quickly as possible.
It is not just a symbolic gesture.
The death penalty is something so final, something so final and so barbaric that we in Europe cannot sanction it.
Turkey knows full well that the abolition of capital punishment must be one of the first hurdles on the road which I referred to.
So I would be most grateful if you would vote in favour of the rapporteur' s report and uphold an old commitment which Europe entered into towards Turkey.
We too are not always in the most credible position, including vis-à-vis Turkey.
I always find it very difficult to demand something of a country, to make demands on a country to which we have made promises which we have not honoured.
A vote in favour of the two regulations would considerably improve our moral position in relation to Turkey and I consider that most important at this stage.
The ideas developed by the European Parliament in the form of the amendments tabled during the discussions tally fully, for the most part, with the Commission and I shall support most of them.
There are only a few minor points on which I cannot accept the proposed amendments as they stand and that is where the institutional balance is affected.
You must and you will understand that the Commission must take care to ensure that the distribution of roles is not changed, that the tasks are allocated as stated in the Treaties and that responsibilities cannot be mixed.
But I think that there is overall agreement on the matter itself.
I again expressly offer to provide the European Parliament with comprehensive information in advance on specific action taken and on the projects which are developed and implemented jointly with Turkey on the basis of the funding regulations, thereby guaranteeing the involvement of the European Parliament in the development of relations with Turkey at all times.
I do not know this evening what the decision will be in Helsinki next week, but I am firmly convinced that the decision which the European Parliament has to take on these two regulations will impact on the outcome of future discussions and on the decision taken by the European Council in a week' s time.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide
The next item is the report (A5-0065/1999) by Mrs Breyer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive relating to limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air [COM(1998) 591 - C4-0135/1999 - 1998/0333(COD)].
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this directive is the second daughter directive within the framework of the directive on ambient air quality assessment and management and the proposal is part of an integrated raft of measures aimed at combating air pollution.
I think we all agree that the people of Europe should be able to breathe cleaner air and indeed the latest publication by the European Environment Agency states that the level of air pollution in most cities poses a threat to health and that almost 40 million people in the 115 largest European cities are exposed to at least one pollutant which exceeds the WHO air quality guidelines.
Despite political initiatives aimed at reducing pollution and improving air quality, it is assumed that passenger transport needs will increase drastically over the next ten years and that the number of vehicles will increase by 25%, increasing air pollution still further.
In a report this year, the WHO comes to the conclusion that air pollution caused by traffic kills even more people than car accidents and that the economic costs are high.
It is therefore important to reduce the level of air pollution, to limit the consequences for particularly vulnerable groups and to ease the burden on the health systems.
The important point about this second daughter directive is that it is the first time that a limit value has been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in the EU.
This is an important step, I would even go so far as to say that it is a milestone in air quality legislation now that, for the first time, a limit value has been set for benzene, a carcinogenic substance which can cause leukaemia.
We know that petrol and oil are sources of benzene and 80% to 85% of the benzene in the European Union comes from the combustion of petrol by road traffic.
Until now there has been no threshold value as far as health risks are concerned and therefore no level of benzene is free of risk.
The precautionary principle in the EC Treaty makes a limit value with an extremely low risk of illness compulsory, however.
The Commission has proposed an annual limit value of 5 micrograms per cubic metre of air for benzene, to be attained by 2010.
This is fully endorsed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
However, the Committee on the Environment does not support the Commission' s intention to give carte blanche in the form of unlimited derogations by proposing that, in the event of so-called socio-economic problems, countries may apply for a transition period of five years, which can then be extended for a further five years.
The Committee on the Environment expects the directive to be properly implemented and proposes that no more than one five-year derogation should be allowed, during which a ten microgram limit must be observed.
Other amendments have been tabled in plenary, coupling this derogation to other conditions in order to ensure - and this must be made quite clear - that these regulations are not a loophole for non-transposition of the directive.
The Committee on the Environment therefore makes it quite clear that it cannot be assumed that a twin-track environmental policy will be operated.
I think that it is extremely important, also in view of enlargement, that we set a good example and do not send out the wrong signal to applicant countries.
The Committee on the Environment would therefore like to make it clear in its proposal, which is more precise and more strict as far as derogations are concerned, that there can be no question of a twin-track environmental policy and that the aim must be to achieve a high level of protection for everyone in the EU.
The Committee also proposes that the public should be better informed in future and that the proposed measures should be extended still further by other measures.
I think that if we can manage to get the Commission to support the Committee' s proposals, then we will have reached a real milestone on the way to better air quality and we will have helped considerably to make it clear that carcinogenic substances have lost in the environmental stakes.
We want to improve the air quality in Europe, thereby making a major contribution to health protection.
Mr President, let me say on behalf of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats that this proposal for a directive is another brick in the edifice of European air quality policy.
The air quality framework directive is implemented by issuing daughter directives on a series of air pollutants.
This is the second such daughter directive and it relates to the limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the air and the corresponding control and information requirements.
The purpose of our proposed amendments is not only to stipulate strict environmental protection requirements but to format these requirements so that they can be transposed and complied with by all Member States.
In order to achieve this objective, certain compromises need to be made, especially with regard to our southern Member States.
From this point of view, the specifications of the European Commission and the extensive amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are very demanding.
The Finnish Presidency is making a serious effort to make use of the new legal possibilities afforded by the Amsterdam Treaty and to bring this proposal into force after the first reading with the amendments of the European Parliament.
We all know how urgent the problem of reducing air pollution is, also with respect to climatic change.
As Mrs Breyer has already pointed out, the real aim is to improve health protection for our citizens.
On these grounds, I welcome the plan of the Finnish Presidency.
But that also means that we in the European Parliament must responsibly create the right conditions.
It is precisely for this reason that I am unable to agree with certain proposed amendments adopted by a majority in the Committee on the Environment and tabled mainly by Mrs Breyer and her group, because some are superfluous and do not help to improve the text while others have no place in this proposal for a directive because they do not concern the scope of the proposed directive.
It is for this reason that we reject a series of proposed amendments.
My proposed amendment of Article 3(2) was adopted by a large majority in committee.
In consultations with advisers, our rapporteur, Mrs Breyer, and experts, we again supplemented and tightened up this amendment.
This is proposed amendment 22, which I would ask you all to support.
I would like to thank Mrs Breyer.
She was at pains to find a consensus and it was not easy, but I think that if we confine ourselves to the basic proposed amendments which improve the Commission proposal, and this refers mainly to Amendment Nos 1, 5, 7, 10, 11, 15, 16 and 22, it should be possible to pass this important directive quickly.
I imagine, hope and expect that, in its reply, the Commission will support this directive and really pave the way for it to be implemented as quickly as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent report.
I particularly welcome the fact that provisions are geared at several points in the report to particularly vulnerable groups of people and the extensive duty to provide information.
The second daughter directive within the framework of improving air quality in Europe must, of course, like previous directives, meet the following objectives, namely to define and stipulate air quality objectives at European level and to create air quality assessment criteria based on standard methods.
Care must be taken to ensure that useful information on air quality is available and provided to the public.
The objective - and I think that this is the fundamental objective - is to maintain and improve air quality.
If this directive is transposed consistently and quickly, I think that we really will be one step closer to this objective.
Of the two air pollutants in the report, you will certainly have noticed that there is less discussion of carbon monoxide.
The proposed limit value of 10 micrograms/m3 over a period of eight hours, which tallies with the WHO guideline, is accepted by all parties.
This acceptance no longer applies to benzene, as you will have gathered from the previous comments.
I think that it is hugely important that, for the first time, we have an EU-wide limit value for a carcinogenic substance and it is precisely because of the high health risk, i.e. the cancer risk, and because of the precedent which it will set for other as yet unregulated carcinogenic substances, that it is important for the limit value set in this directive to be transposed into practice as quickly as possible.
My group therefore supports the Commission proposal, i.e. 5 micrograms/m3.
As far as the content is concerned, we support working towards a future reduction of this limit value, but we feel that a realistic objective will result in faster implementation at this point in time.
The real political priority as far as I am concerned is to comply with limit values in all areas, including so-called hotspots, and we must avoid overly generous derogations which will provide a loophole for non-compliance with the limit values for benzene.
Regional and local agencies must be involved in finding a solution so that air quality can be improved.
Mr President, like many British Members, I live in two worlds.
One is the place that I read about in our national newspapers.
Some of them, at least, feed their readers a diet of lies and half-truths to whip up hatred of all things European.
And the other is here; the place which actually exists, where I find myself working amongst colleagues and others trying to make this continent a better place for its citizens.
This draft directive belongs to the second of these two worlds.
Its simple aim is to cut pollution and improve the air we breathe, which circulates from one country to another without respect to national boundaries.
Who can be against that?
The public information insisted upon in the draft directive is vital and gives the opportunity to back up legal measures with the right of the public to name and shame those governments which fail to take the necessary measures to comply with this directive.
And, if we fail to achieve the targets for reducing benzene and carbon monoxide emissions, it will not be the fault of industry.
They have done their part through technological change.
It will be the fault of governments for not having the political courage to curb the use of cars in our cities.
The Liberal Democrats welcome this measure.
I anticipate us supporting all the amendments which have been tabled.
We are pleased to be sending a strong and practical message to eurosceptics everywhere that we are in Europe to make this continent a better place for us all.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too congratulate Mrs Breyer on her excellent work. We hope that this will be taken up by the Commission so that ambitious measures for fighting pollution can be quickly established.
We know that benzene causes leukaemia and that the incidence of leukaemia among children is increasing.
We also know that road transport causes considerable air pollution and, in particular, that this type of transport is unfortunately on the increase rather than on the decline.
This directive has therefore been long-awaited and must be a priority.
Although we support this report, we have sponsored some amendments, two of which I must defend more particularly.
The first is Amendment No 17 in which we ask for the removal of the derogation which, in our opinion, deprives the text of its substance and which can only delay the application of the directive.
This is the main weakness of this directive.
Also, in Amendment No 20, we suggest that the Commission lowers the benzene emission limit from five micrograms per cubic metre, as proposed by the Commission, to four micrograms per cubic metre.
This threshold must be lowered in consideration of the toxicity of benzene.
We are, of course, still a long way, perhaps a very long way, from the precautionary principle which should be guiding our policies, but I accept that this is progress and it is a start.
Mr President, clean air is a vital necessity for life.
I therefore support a daughter directive being drawn up concerning the substances carbon monoxide and benzene.
Given the high toxicity of benzene, there is a direct link between air quality and public health.
The proposed standards are ambitious: a 70% reduction in benzene emissions and a 30% reduction in CO emissions.
It is hoped that these objectives, as well as the first daughter directive for air quality, can be achieved.
Huge efforts will be required in the process.
Combustion processes in both industry and transport will need to run their course in order to restrict the emission of carbon monoxide.
At power stations, waste incineration plants, cement furnaces and in cars, there are ways of reducing the emission of carbon monoxide.
In the case of forest fires, however, very little can be done.
Preventing forest fires and other uncontrolled combustion processes could, therefore, make up a large component in the policy when this directive is transposed.
In order to prevent the emission of benzene, the use of car fuels, among other things, will need to be handled with care.
I do wonder therefore if the standard for petrol stations will be met.
If no measurements are taken at petrol stations, no action will be taken.
If measurements are taken, on the other hand, it is highly improbable that the standard for benzene will be met.
Therefore, Commissioner, I would urge the European Commission to study the section on measurements more closely.
Representative measurement is necessary here, otherwise air quality will not improve.
Mr President, reduction of air pollution and, in particular, benzene and carbon monoxide is a legitimate objective of the European Union.
Therefore, this directive must be generally welcomed.
Air sampling must be organised to give an accurate assessment of annual personal exposure levels, and I am concerned that some amendments that call for roadside inlets would give a distorted picture of the problem.
Individuals are not exposed to kerb side concentrations continuously.
It is the building line which is important and that may be more than five metres from the kerb.
The unqualified derogation for benzene levels, referred to by Mrs Breyer for socio-economic reasons, at first seems bizarre.
One would have thought that communities living in our disadvantaged areas, with all their associated health problems, would be those most in need of cleaner air.
However, if this regulation were to result in the closure of a major industry in that area, the results would be counter-productive and would exacerbate the social and economic problems.
Although petrol engines are the primary source of benzene, metallurgical coke-works are also implicated.
If the most stringent aspects proposed are implemented, this part of the steel-making industry could be forced abroad, probably to eastern Europe, which brings me to my last point.
The Commission proposal does not specifically address the problems of air pollution in applicant countries; and I think it is irresponsible, given the eminent enlargement, for Parliament not to be given any information regarding pollution levels in countries like Poland and the Czech Republic; and the likely cost and time scale involved in bringing them up to exacting new standards.
Could I suggest, Mrs Wallström, that in future, when environment legislation like this is considered, the full implications regarding applicant countries be taken into account and publicised.
Mr President, Commissioner, I support the report presented by Mrs Breyer which is excellent in many respects.
Firstly, I must stress the positive effect of her public health proposals.
The Commission' s proposal, supported and furthered by this report, establishes the principle of ambient air quality assessment and management with regard to two major sources of pollution: benzene and carbon monoxide. These are both produced by road traffic.
It has rightly been emphasised that benzene is a carcinogen which causes leukaemia and that carbon monoxide can lead to toxic lesions on the heart and brain, and even to death in high concentrations.
We must not make people' s fears worse but we must ourselves realise and make others realise the dangers of not adopting realistic and necessarily stringent measures. These must allow as little derogation as possible so that we can assess, control and restrict to the minimum polluting emissions of these two noxious gases.
This is even more vital as these gases are more dangerous for children, the elderly and anyone suffering from heart or respiratory problems.
Secondly, the Breyer report is of great interest to the consumers which we all are.
Although the initial aim was to ensure that the public has easy access to up-to-date information, the rapporteur has gone further by specifying not only the frequency with which information must be made available, but also the range of media to be used in distributing this information. This is not unimportant.
The people of Europe are entitled to know about the quality of the environment in which they are living.
They must be able to judge the measures taken by the competent national or local authorities to provide the scientists with quantified data so that the air which they breathe can be improved.
These measures constitute a strong political signal about the political choices made on transport.
I would therefore invite you all to support the rapporteur without hesitation. Her proposals are both ambitious and realistic and clearly show the Council how demanding the European Parliament can be on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Environment Committee and in particular, of course, the rapporteur, Mrs Breyer, for her valuable report.
Thank you also for your valuable input into this discussion.
The proposal before us is the second that the Commission brings forward under the Framework Directive 96/62 on air quality assessment and management.
It will set new limit values.
These limit values are based on the latest advice from the World Health Organisation.
There are many areas in which the Commission can agree with the constructive amendments proposed by the Committee.
We accept amendments that bring this proposal into line with the final position on the first air quality daughter directive, 1999/30, which was adopted in April this year.
We, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 1 and 6.
I share the Environment Committee's view that the most critical area for discussion is the limit value for benzene and the timetables for meeting it.
Benzene is difficult since there is no identifiable threshold for effects.
The Commission can, in principle, accept Amendment No 2, which makes this clear.
We suggest a slight rewording in line with standard terminology; that is: "Whereas benzene is a human genotoxic carcinogen and there is no identifiable threshold below which there is no risk to human health;"
Where the limit value is concerned, the Commission believes that its proposal for an annual average concentration of 5 micrograms per cubit metre is well balanced.
It will provide a high level of protection, but should be generally achievable throughout the Union over the next ten years.
The Commission can therefore not accept the part of Amendment No 20 that would set a limit value of 4 micrograms per cubic metre.
However, it is clear that limit values for carcinogens must be kept under constant review.
The Commission will report on benzene as part of a new integrated clean air programme in 2004.
As the proposal makes clear, we will then consider whether to propose a new limit value for the longer term.
Although the Commission considers that its proposal is generally achievable by 2010, there are some uncertainties.
This is largely due to the fact that at present there is no limit value for benzene and no consistent monitoring across the Union.
It is, however, clear that the ease with which problems can be tackled depend to some extent on climate.
The Commission has, therefore, asked Parliament and Council in Article 3(2) whether this should be taken into account.
Having listened to the debates so far, the Commission feels that Member States should be able to request longer time scales for meeting the limit value for benzene, where the 2010 deadline would cause serious socio-economic problems.
It does, therefore, not accept Amendment No 17 nor the remaining part of Amendment No 20.
We do agree, however, that conditions for obtaining a derogation should be made more clear and be tightened.
On balance, the Commission now considers that it may be feasible to limit extensions to a maximum of five years.
It therefore accepts most of Amendment No 22, which we prefer to Amendment No 5.
It does not, however, feel that it can support a temporary limit value of 10 micrograms per cubit metre without information on feasibility.
The Commission cannot accept that part of Amendment No 22.
Amendment No 11 is partly related to Amendment No 22, and the Commission accepts it in part.
The Commission does not accept the part of Amendment No 11 which would insert a requirement that a more stringent limit value for benzene should be proposed in 2004.
The proposal already makes clear that the aim of the review will be to look at the latest evidence and, if necessary, to improve protection still further.
We should leave such decisions open until we have all the evidence in front of us.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 10 which points out the importance of looking at effects on sensitive populations.
The Commission agrees with the Environment Committee that indoor conditions have significant effects on health, but we do not think this proposal is the vehicle for considering how to tackle this issue.
The subject is much wider than benzene and carbon monoxide and needs, therefore, to be looked at in a wider framework. From a technical point of view, Directive 96/62 defines ambient air as 'outdoor air' only.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 3 and 12 nor the partly related Amendment No 18.
Indoor air, as I also know that Mrs Breyer is engaged in this issue, could be taken up within the framework of a new environmental action programme.
Providing good up-to-date information to the public is the key element of the new framework for improving air quality.
The Commission can accept that part of Amendment No 7 which would add to the list of means that Member States might use to inform the public about air quality.
It does not, however, accept that part of the amendment that would require Member States to make lists of organisations that get information and send them to the Commission.
It was decided during discussions of the first daughter directive that such lists would be too bureaucratic and could even be misleading.
The Commission accepts Amendment No 8, which requires better public information on carbon monoxide as an improvement to its proposal.
It can also agree in part with Amendment No 9.
Annex 6, part two, deals with data on pollution levels.
This should actively be made available to the public in line with the Aarhus Convention.
The documentation referred to in Annex 4, part three, is, however, highly technical and potentially voluminous.
It should be available on request but should not be actively disseminated.
The Commission agrees with the rapporteur that Member States should take particular care to provide information to the public in any area with extended timetables for meeting the limit value of benzene.
We can, therefore, accept Amendment No 19 in principal.
We would propose adding to Article 6(2): "Member States should pay particular attention to providing information on concentrations, plans and programmes to the public in areas referred to in Article 3(2)".
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 4 in principle.
We suggest, however, replacing the words 'measured data' by the word 'concentrations'.
This shows that information must be forwarded whether it was obtained by measurement or by some other method.
A third objective of both the Air Quality Framework Directive and this proposal is to ensure that Member States assess air quality in a consistent and comparable way.
The Commission does not, however, accept Amendment No 13.
There are technical problems with the amendment as drafted, and it is unnecessary.
Member States will have to inform the Commission about measurement methods, numbers and locations of measurement stations every year.
This is already stated under the general reporting requirements of Directive 96/62 and the related Council Decision 97/101 on a reciprocal exchange of information on air quality.
The Commission also does not accept Amendment No 14.
It is not compatible with decisions of the first air quality daughter directive.
General technical advice is that for annual average limit values, measuring close to the building line better reflects the exposure of the population.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 15 in part. It considers that this proposal should be brought into line with Directive 1999/30 by inserting the words 'where there is more than one measurement station within the zone or agglomeration at least one should be placed close to traffic and at least one should be oriented to the urban background'.
It thinks, however, that the additional requirement that at least half the stations should be traffic-oriented is over-prescriptive.
Finally, the Commission agrees with the intention of Amendment Nos 16 and 21.
Directive 96/62 allows the use of random measurement if it can be shown to be sufficiently accurate.
These amendments seek to say what that means for benzene.
Amendment No 16 follow closely the first daughter directive.
The Commission considers, however, that in the case of the annual average limit value for benzene, it is possible to demand a higher standard of accuracy equal to that set for continuous monitoring.
It can, therefore, accept Amendment No 21 in preference to Amendment No 16.
I shall close by saying that I hope it will be possible to reach a rapid agreement on this proposal.
At present, there are no Community limit values for benzene or carbon monoxide.
It is essential to get this legislation in place so that proper monitoring can start, and Member States can identify the problem areas.
This is a crucial factor to assure that public health is properly protected throughout the Union.
A final word to Mr Goodwill on enlargement, because you really have a point there.
At the moment, it is difficult to have good information on these matters and good measurement from the applicant countries.
We have to follow this very closely.
We already work together with the applicant countries and we have done screening reports as you already know.
So we have to do a great deal of work together with the applicant countries and you have an important point.
This should be added to our list of work that we have to pursue from now on.
So, thank you for that; and thank you for the discussion.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your full and documented answer.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Carbon dioxide emissions from new cars
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5­0064/1999) by Mrs González Álvarez, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a scheme to monitor the average specific emissions of carbon dioxide from new passenger cars [COM(1998) 348 - C5­0041/1999 - 1998/0202(COD)].
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as indicated by the President, this is the second reading of a common position established by the Council on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from new vehicles.
We must remember that the intention behind this second reading is to meet the Kyoto objectives, subsequently approved in Bonn, of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. We continue to feel that these objectives are modest.
Given the Environment Agency' s report which stated that emissions must be reduced by 30%, the proposed objectives are definitely modest.
However, we are pleased with this common position which is heading in the right direction of preventing new cars from emitting increasing amounts of carbon dioxide.
At first reading, 45 amendments were tabled in the Committee on the Environment. They were approved by a large majority.
Of these 45 amendments, 29 were adopted in plenary. The Council should be thanked for having included a large proportion of these 29 amendments in the common position.
However, there are 10 amendments which we are tabling again as they were approved, with just one abstention, by over 40 votes in the Committee on the Environment.
These amendments concern some of the issues which, at first reading, seemed important to the majority of the Committee on the Environment.
Some only involve a change of words, such as Amendment No 1, which states that greenhouse gases, in this case carbon dioxide, should not just be stabilised but also reduced.
Amendment No 2 proposes monitoring on an objective basis.
We have made a small change to this at the Commission' s suggestion.
In Amendment No 3 we indicate the legal framework which should be provided in case the voluntary agreements fail.
I would remind you that this House in general, and the Committee on the Environment in particular, has little faith in effective results being achieved by voluntary agreements.
This is why we propose establishing a legal framework.
We also mention tax incentives and the inclusion of commercial vehicles. The latter must not be omitted from the proposal given that they are responsible for a significant proportion of carbon dioxide emissions.
We propose a change to the method of data collection if results are not achieved within a certain period of time.
The Council' s common position itself mentions that the Member States have a variety of data collection proposals.
In addition, we ask for a report on the operation of this method for December 2002.
At the suggestion of the Commission, we have also made a small change to this.
We would have liked this report by June 2002 but we have accepted December in order to allow more time.
In the report which the Commission must present to the Council and the European Parliament, we also want an analysis of whether the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions is due to the technical measures of industrialists or to consumer habits.
Amendment No 10, which the Commission and Council accept, refers to the weight and size of cars.
We thank the Council and Commission for having accepted certain amendments.
However, we must insist on some of these 10 amendments which we are tabling again because they were approved practically unanimously, with one abstention, in the Committee on the Environment.
Even the Commission and Council representatives have said that they are still studying some of these amendments, for example the one on tax incentives and the inclusion of commercial vehicles.
We therefore feel that these amendments are simply supporting this study process of the Commission and Council on, for example, tax incentives and commercial vehicles.
These are easy amendments for the Commission and Council to accept.
We are perfectly well aware of the difficulties faced by the Council in convincing the fifteen Member States of a proposal of this nature.
Yet we must say that, having consulted practically all the groups, they stress that we must keep these amendments and so I defend the proposal from the Committee on the Environment.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the PPE group and, more importantly, on behalf of my colleague, Marlies Flemming, who is attending the WTO negotiations for the Committee on the Environment and is therefore unfortunately unable to take the floor here today.
The original Commission proposal sought to set up a monitoring system to provide reliable information on CO2 emissions from new cars.
The proposal forms part of the European Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions and fuel consumption.
Other elements of this strategy are an agreement with the automobile industry on reducing CO2 emissions by a certain deadline and a fuel consumption labelling system in order to make it easier for consumers to choose a new car.
This strategy is certainly a logical one because we know that about half of all CO2 emissions are caused by traffic; however, we should also note that about 12% of all CO2 emissions are emitted in the European Union and about 88% in the rest of the world.
The Council of Ministers has adopted a number of amendments tabled by the European Parliament at first reading which strengthen the original Commission proposal.
These amendments refer, for example, to the Kyoto protocol, the importance of collecting data so that the voluntary agreement to reduce CO2 emissions from cars by 2003 can be properly monitored, the European Commission' s undertaking to report on the monitoring data forwarded by Member States to the European Parliament and, finally, some additions to the information to be forwarded.
We therefore welcome the Council' s common position.
If we are to create an efficient monitoring system without too much delay, we need to adopt this proposal as quickly as possible.
The decision could then enter into force this year.
That would mean that the year 2000 would be the first year for which data then needed to be compiled.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that there are still three controversial points in this directive which we also need to discuss. In order to do so, we need to consider briefly why this directive has even been tabled.
Surely not because it is fun to collect data; enough data is being collected already. No, it is because we have concluded a voluntary agreement with the motor industry.
That is the first time that we have done so at European level. We need to have instruments so that we can monitor this undertaking.
That is why we have tabled this directive and that is why this directive needs to be a suitable instrument which really can be used for monitoring purposes.
There are therefore three points, I think, which need to be included in the directive and in this respect I support the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur.
First: we must make it clear that if the monitoring data show that the voluntary undertaking does not work, then legislation will follow.
In other words, there needs to be a link between monitoring and legislation if the figures prove unequivocally that the undertakings are not being complied with.
That needs to be added.
Secondly: we also need clear rules on using the data.
It is no good filing the data and leaving the files locked away in a cupboard somewhere. They must be the basis in 2002 for monitoring the voluntary undertaking.
We need an independent data register for monitoring the voluntary undertaking and I feel that this needs to be clearly stated in the directive.
Thirdly: the voluntary undertaking by the motor industry, both in Europe and in Japan and Korea, refers to technical measures to reduce CO2 through better engines, lighter vehicles etc. That also needs to be monitored.
If CO2 consumption drops due to changes in purchasing patterns, because suddenly we all want to buy three-litre cars, then that is something else.
We therefore need a clear division between technical measures and consumer patterns and this too needs to be integrated into the directive so that this instrument really can be used in line with the intention which brought about the directive in the first place.
So let us add these three points to the directive so that we have a proper, efficient instrument for monitoring this voluntary agreement which, after all, is an experiment for the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by thanking the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and, in particular, its rapporteur, Mrs González Álvarez, for dealing with this matter so quickly.
It is in fact in all the parties' interests that this decision should be taken without further delay so that we might set in motion an objective monitoring of the environmental agreements which have been made with the car industry.
Mrs González Álvarez pointed out in her recommendation that the common position contains many of the points of view which the European Parliament presented in its first reading.
As Mrs Schleicher said, Mrs Flemming has stated that she could accept the common position without any further changes.
It is important that we should be clear that it will only be possible for this decision to come into force during 1999 if the common position is accepted in its current version.
Otherwise, we shall lose a whole calendar year in which we could be collecting data.
Where the Amendments which have been submitted are concerned, we can give our full support to three proposals for possible improvements to the common position, namely Amendment No 3, part 1, together with Amendment Nos 7 and 10.
We can also support a number of further Amendments in principle: Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 4, part 2, together with Amendment No 9, even if we consider that they need to be reformulated.
I want briefly to talk about the justifications behind the position adopted by the Commission.
First and foremost, I want to comment on Amendment No 2 about also allowing other motor vehicles to be covered by the decision.
As a consequence of the desire expressed by the European Parliament at the first reading, the Commission is at present taking the first steps to include light goods vehicles' fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions in the legislation concerning type approval. This applies therefore to vehicles in category M1.
The Commission will then see if it is possible to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from such vehicles.
The Commission agrees that vehicles in category M1 are the most important target group for such measures.
There are therefore no plans at present to look into the question of whether other types of vehicle might be included, mainly because vehicles such as lorries are expected in any case to be highly fuel-efficient or because the contribution of, for example, two-wheeled vehicles to local carbon dioxide emissions is not great.
It is the Commission' s intention to take account of these factors and to reformulate the proposed text in the following way: "The Commission is to investigate the possibility of submitting appropriate proposals concerning harmonised procedures for measuring the specific carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles in category M1 in accordance with Annex No 3 to Directive 70/156."
When it comes to Amendment No 4, part 2 concerning other parts of the strategy in respect of carbon dioxide and vehicles, we consider that the first part of that Amendment is almost entirely covered by justification 6 in the common position.
We cannot accept this part of the Amendment because it ought to include a reference to the Community objective of 120 g/km. The year by which this objective is to be achieved, namely 2010, has however been left out of the European Parliament' s Amendment.
In the second part of the proposed justification, reference is made to the second and third pillars in the strategy concerning carbon dioxide and private cars and, specifically, to consumer information and the employment of tax measures.
The directive concerning consumer information was adopted by the European Parliament at the second reading on 4 November of this year and may therefore be considered to have been accepted in accordance with the common position. There is therefore no reason to refer to this matter again.
Because tax measures are an important factor in the strategy, it may well be worth including a reference to these.
In view of the fact that the Commission is already in the process of investigating the possibility of a frame of reference, the proposed justification ought to reflect this situation in a correct manner.
The Commission proposes another variant, worded as follows: "The Commission is investigating the possibility of introducing a frame of reference for tax measures which may encourage the use of fuel-efficient private cars."
With regard to Amendment No 9 concerning the content of the annual report, the rapporteur wants to add a new Article to clarify what the annual report is to contain. The report is to include an analysis of the extent to which changes in carbon dioxide emissions depend upon manufacturers' initiatives or upon factors which have to do with the strategy concerning carbon dioxide and cars.
An analysis of this kind is important for discovering whether manufacturers are in fact carrying out the tasks to which they have committed themselves within the framework of the environmental agreement.
This is the case, for example, in relation to the partial objectives which have been set for the year 2003 and naturally also in relation to the final objectives for the year 2008.
However, an analysis of this kind requires a major effort in developing relevant methods and technical research, as well as intensive discussions with the manufacturers.
It will also take some years before it is apparent whether any developments worth mentioning have in fact taken place.
The Commission will therefore probably not act upon the first assessment until the time limits for the partial and final objectives have expired.
This ought to be reflected in the text of the decision. We therefore propose the following reformulation.
I quote: "In the reports for the year by which the partial objective is to have been achieved and for the year by which the final objective is to have been achieved, it shall be stated whether the reductions are due to technical measures taken by the manufacturers or whether there are other reasons, such as a change in behaviour on the part of consumers."
We have difficulty in accepting the remaining Amendments, that is to say Amendment No 1, Amendment No 3, part 2, Amendment No 4, part 1 and Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 8 which neither improve nor clarify the text.
Finally, I want to say a few words about Amendment No 3, part 2.
Here, it is prescribed that the Commission is to compose a legal framework for environmental agreements.
I want to emphasise that the European Parliament' s involvement in the environmental agreements is a crucial issue for me.
As I have already explained before the plenary sitting on 3 November, I do not intend to present any new proposals for environmental agreements as long as the European Parliament' s role remains undecided.
We are therefore now putting together a general document concerning environmental agreements, their legal framework and the institutional procedures relating to them.
When it comes to such agreements as have already been made, or are in the process of being made, for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from private cars, the Commission has, on a number of occasions, pointed out that legislation concerning the limits for carbon dioxide emissions will be considered if the car industry does not fulfil its commitments.
Now would not be the appropriate time, however, to introduce the technical preparations for such legislation.
This would be to send out the wrong message to industry.
To summarise, I should like to say that I am very satisfied with the fact that the common position has, on the whole, obtained such a positive reception from the rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
I hope now that this House can offer its support so that the decision can be taken as quickly as possible.
We shall then have the opportunity to monitor in sufficient detail the way in which the environmental agreements concluded with the car industry are being implemented.
If plenary considers it necessary to submit more Amendments, the Commission is, in certain cases, prepared to support them, either in full or in principle.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your detailed replies to the rapporteur and speakers in this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Safety and health of workers at risk from explosive atmospheres
The next item is the report (A5-0074/1999) by Mr Pronk, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council Directive on minimum requirements for improving the safety and health protection of workers potentially at risk from explosive atmospheres (Fifteenth individual Directive within the meaning of Article 16(1) of Directive 89/391/EEC) [C5-0221/1999 - 1995/0235(COD)].
Mr President, this is a report on health and safety.
There have been many, but this report stands out because it will be the first report to be adopted under codecision, provided that, tomorrow, the House agrees with our recommendations to indeed approve the agreement with the Council.
I believe that this is what is of such historic importance about this report.
In fact, it is also the first report in the social sphere that has ever gone through under codecision.
Parliament has always made a fuss about the fact that not enough emphasis has been placed on the social dimension in legislative practice.
We did not encounter a great deal of problems with the Council regarding this report.
This is also reflected in the number of amendments which this Parliament brought at second reading.
We do have to note, of course, that all this took rather a long time.
This special directive implements the framework directive which was adopted in 1989.
Our first reading was in 1996.
It is now 1999.
The directive will not enter into effect until 2003.
This illustrates that it sometimes all takes longer sometimes than expected.
If we consider the numbers of people still being killed due to unsafe working conditions, then more urgency is needed.
So what was the key point in the negotiations with the Council?
This is when codecision proves so important.
It mainly concerned the publication of what we have agreed upon here.
We at the Parliament requested right from the outset that companies be informed of European legislation.
This legislation is, of course, also included in national legislation, albeit in a covert way.
Moreover, national legislation is far from adequately disseminated.
Initially, the Council was strongly opposed to this.
We went through some tough negotiations.
It is, of course, a little ironic that a provision which may prove important to all companies should be kept more or less concealed.
This brings me to my second point of concern.
We now have more or less an actual framework of minimum directives in terms of health and safety.
This is of great importance.
A number of countries have not yet implemented certain directives.
The Commission should be commended for bringing a number of these countries before the Court of Justice over the past couple of years and also for the fact that changes have been made.
But it appears that it still takes much longer to tackle countries in this sector than it does in others.
This is regrettable.
Practical benchmarking, however, which is very important, is still not up to scratch because, after all, what it comes down to is that more or less the same minimum requirements apply within a company, be it in Denmark or in Spain.
This benefits competitive relationships but it mainly benefits those employed within those companies.
If there is no exchange, if the practical benchmarks are not equal, then something else is still lacking.
We have the strong impression that this still has not been regulated terribly well.
This is the very reason why this vade mecum, as we called it initially, is so important.
It may be of interest that this vade mecum has now turned into a guide. Why is this?
It is because the Council could not come to terms with the word "vade mecum" for some unknown reason.
The term vade mecum is understood in most European countries without any explanation, without a translation and a complex, long, reasonably procedural title will, of course, be less easily understood.
But Parliament made this concession.
We will not dwell on this any further.
It remains important, however, that everyone is informed of these directives and, above all, that they can apply them.
A whole raft of companies do not apply those directives properly. This is not because they refuse to, it is simply because they are not sufficiently aware of the possibilities for applying them.
Such a guide may be helpful in this, and this is how we voluntarily reach not harmonisation but minimum standards.
I think that this is how we will gradually grow closer together.
I would ask the Commission to take a much harder line on this practical benchmarking than it has done in the past.
We have a new Commissioner and I know that she has a great deal of experience in this field.
Maybe we can expect fresh momentum in this respect too.
Mr President, I am a great believer in health and safety, but I am also a great believer that we are not going to change everything by legislation.
If we could legislate away things like poverty, accidents, illness and death, then we should have done it yesterday, but we are not going to do that.
That being said, there are things we can do at European level, which include changing the culture, the culture where we work, the culture we live in.
This report by Mr Pronk goes some way towards doing that and doing it very well.
He should be congratulated on all that, because he has brought excellent conclusions into this report.
He has made history as well, by having the first report to go through under codecision and the first report on health and safety.
It augurs very well for the future of what we should hope to achieve through this process, because Parliament has been very responsible in its approach to using codecision.
Parliament is not always pointed to as being responsible or informed, but in this particular area we were better informed and, in some respects, I feel, more responsible.
It has made spectacular progress in the area of small to medium-sized enterprises, by far the biggest sector we could ever hope to address.
This is where most accidents occur in the workplace and yet there is undisguised dismay amongst myself and other colleagues at the fact that we take very little account of this.
You are 50% more likely to have an accident at work if you work for a small to medium-sized business.
The information which will be provided, which was a vade mecum in this report, to small businesses and which they now have a right to be informed about, will go a long way in helping to change the culture in the workplace.
It should be used in other reports in other areas, and we should learn from that.
On the other hand, as a participant in the conciliation process, I was pleased at the very real response of the Council to Parliament' s amendments and take note for future reference about how we can achieve the various amendments and positions we wish.
Under the former procedure of cooperation of course we had our successes and the Commission was very much a part of that, and we still enjoy that acceptable relationship.
Safety is one of those areas where we can always find middle ground to achieve what we really want.
It is time now for governments to listen to what this Parliament has to say 100% of the time and for those governments to act.
Parliament is not in opposition to other institutions, it is a balance and it is a brake.
It is unfortunately precisely because ministers were too close together, too keen to have cosy relationships away from scrutiny at European level, that we now have this process. It introduces transparency and clarity, and that can only be good for the trust of the people of Europe.
Many lives will be affected by this report and the work that has gone into it, many businesses will be pleasantly surprised by the balanced outcome, and if there was more work like this, perhaps even Europe would become popular in places like Britain, who knows?
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Pronk on the constructive way in which this report came into being.
It is vital to protect the safety of employees anywhere in Europe, or anywhere in the world, for that matter.
It is regrettable that I did not get involved in this report until later because I was elected for the first time in July.
As Mr Pronk indicated, they have been working on this since 1996.
Why did I say this?
It is an excellent report and we give it our full backing, but it is regrettable that, in my opinion, the warning panel, in particular, is still rather unclear: a triangular panel with a red border and black letters spelling "EX".
To someone like me, a layperson in the field of explosive atmospheres, this could mean anything.
Is it a warning concerning my ex-partner who can be rather explosive?
Are they explosives or whatever?
I think it would be a good idea if the same panel, the same warning sign or pictogram, could be used as is used throughout the international world of transport. In fact, I also brought this to Committee, I even sent a letter questioning this very point.
I received a reply, upon which I do not wish to elaborate.
I do hope, however, that in the short term, the same warning panel will be used across the board.
Mr President, I too am new.
I shall stand up anyway, although I am far too tall for this device.
First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. What did occur to me, however, even as a new Member, was that the original proposals have been toned down quite considerably and that he is actually deeply regretful, despite what has been achieved.
Unfortunately, the need for this type of directive is underlined regularly, and especially the fact that it is an evolving process.
In the Netherlands, for example, there have been a number of explosions at the same factories year after year, caused by dust.
The knowledge as to how exactly this happened is lacking.
Another repercussion is that repair activities are carried out by hired companies. As a result, the overall business layout is unclear, especially to these temporary staff.
This is exactly why it is important to characterise and classify companies, workstations and suchlike effectively, and to divide these into areas, etc.
This is included in the proposal.
It is, however, a cause for great concern that, although there are minimum directives, no obligations have been laid down pursuant to the guide we discussed, let alone the provisions to be included therein.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner how the new practices will be developed technically and how the effects of hiring temporary staff will be dealt with.
In other words, have an evolving process but still ensure that there are substantial obligations in respect of minimum directives.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Helsinki Convention
The next item is the report (A5-0044/1999) by Mr Sjöstedt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a Council decision on the approval, on behalf of the Community, of the amendments to the Annexes to the Convention on the protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area (Helsinki Convention) [COM(1999) 128 - C4-0218/1999 - 1999/0077(CNS)].
Mr President, this report is concerned with developing and improving international cooperation with regard to the marine environment in the Baltic.
In 1974, the States around the Baltic got together to form what is known as the Helsinki Convention in order to safeguard the marine environment.
The Convention was developed further after 1992 following the extensive political transformations which had occurred at that time.
Of the European Union countries, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Germany at present subscribe to the Convention.
Moreover, the European Union is itself one of its signatories.
The three Baltic countries - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - together with Russia and Poland are also involved in the work.
The Baltic is an inland sea with very significant environmental problems.
The areas in which the rivers that run into the Baltic originate are extensive and are located in several different countries.
The outlets into the North Sea and the Atlantic are small, and discharges from agriculture, industry and private households are significant.
The salt content of the Baltic is relatively low compared with that of other seas.
What is more, there are major problems involving low oxygen content in large parts of the Baltic. This creates a special environment, and it also creates quite a few problems for marine life.
One example is the very large variation to be found in fish stocks from year to year.
Very extensive work is already being done to clean up various sources of discharges around the Baltic.
In particular, clean-up facilities are at present being constructed in a variety of locations in Eastern Europe. These are largely being financed by the European Union.
This report is about revising two of the Helsinki Convention' s Annexes, namely Annexes 3 and 4.
Annex 3 concerns agricultural discharges.
The changes which come about through this revision are to be implemented partly in order to reduce discharges of nitrogen, phosphorus and pesticides.
This can have a big effect, especially upon the situation regarding eutrophication and lack of oxygen in the Baltic.
Annex 4 is aimed at reducing discharges from boats and ships.
This part regulates, among other things, equipment for gathering up oil, waste and waste water in various harbours.
Both these changes are very welcome, and it has been self-evident to me as rapporteur that we should support them and say that we should vote for them.
When it comes to dealing with waste from ships, work is in progress within the European Union on a proposed Directive concerning plant for receiving waste in harbours.
It is, however, important to appreciate that there remain a very great many problems within the framework of Annex 4. This especially applies to the monitoring of waste at sea.
Even when such monitoring in fact takes place, for example from the air, it has proved to be very difficult indeed to hold those responsible to account and to penalise them for the offences against the environment which are in fact being committed in the Baltic.
Where agriculture is concerned, I have looked for some kind of description of the effects which the new requirements are having upon the European Union' s sets of regulations, partly in relation to the expected enlargement of the EU to include a number of countries bordering the Baltic.
I have not found any such descriptive report at the Commission, but I believe it would have been useful to see one.
The changes to these Annexes will come into force at the end of the year.
It is therefore high time to take the decision in question.
It would have been an advantage if the European Parliament had been involved in this work earlier.
Mr President, it has been shown that the amount of nutrients in the open sea area in the Gulf of Finland and in the vicinity of the shore generally increase as one moves eastwards, which is a reflection of the impact Russia has on the nutrients of the Baltic.
Quite recently, however, extensive new data has been collected covering areas right in the vicinity of the coastline, in the shallow coves of the Baltic.
No corresponding eastward growth in the amount of nutrients is discernible, but instead the areas with high levels of nutrients clearly point to local causes: agriculture, industry and the presence of summer cottages.
There are especially high levels of nutrients in the vicinity of rivers flowing into the sea, which shows that large amounts of nitric and phosphoric compounds are being carried from the land to the sea.
Nutrients have a greater effect on the fairly closed ecosystem that exists along the coast than they have in open sea areas.
For this reason, many areas of inland water near the coast need revitalising.
The coastal areas are particularly strategic from the point of view of human activity and enjoyment.
For this reason, it is vital to take action to substantially reduce the volumes of local effluent due to agriculture, housing or recreation.
For the protection of the Baltic we thus need on-going fine-tuning, with smaller-scale measures, which are also dealt with in Annexes III and IV of the Helsinki Convention now being discussed.
The report that has been prepared recommends, in addition, that the Commission should produce an analysis of the possible effects of the changes on Union legislation.
Furthermore, we should clarify whether the legislation that is being drafted, for example Agenda 2000, can have an impact on Union action under the Helsinki Convention.
The harmonisation of environmental considerations, viable agriculture, policies on livelihood, recreation and, for example, enlargement in a manner that is sustainable for the Baltic area, will naturally be a great challenge, both administratively and politically.
We need a conscious attempt at coherence.
Perhaps an initiative on the northern dimension could provide the comprehensive angle on the Baltic region we need to consider all these important areas of policy simultaneously and in a mutually compatible way.
I would also like to believe that, if it works well, the northern dimension would provide a forum to which the EU will find it appropriate to invite other key players as well, for example from the Baltic region.
For example, the Nordic Council has a long history of shaping environmental policy in the Nordic countries and in neighbouring regions.
The Nordic Council is involved in organising a parliamentary Baltic Conference, for all the countries of the Baltic to attend.
It would be natural for the EU to embark on closer talks with these countries.
The Nordic Council has shown initiative and expressed the wish to start such a dialogue with the EU.
I hope that that the northern dimension will prove to be a good, viable model for an ecologically sustainable and comprehensive development of a policy for these areas, which can be used for other areas of the Union.
Mr President, the Convention that replaced the agreement on marine protection in the Baltic region in 1992 was an important step towards improving the area' s environmental state.
The new agreement covers the whole of the Baltic Sea up to the coastlines of those states surrounding it.
In addition, and this is important, the states to sign the agreement are committed to action throughout the entire catchment area of the region, which considerably extends the impact of the agreement.
The Helsinki Convention has been a pioneer in the multilateral cooperation process among the Baltic countries.
At present there are a good number of players in the region involved in a cooperative arrangement that extends to every sector of life, from the economy to culture.
The tradition of bustling interaction that existed in the Hanseatic era is thus being revived, and before long the Baltic Sea will be an internal sea of the Union.
The programme of environmental cooperation in the Baltic region is a part of the Union' s northern dimension policy.
As we are often asked what the northern dimension policy in practice means, it is, for example, taking care of the delicate environmental conditions that exist in the Nordic regions.
The commitment in the Convention to protecting natural diversity is a necessary addition to the Convention on Fishing in the Baltic Sea.
With regard to the future, we should consider how the structures underlying the protection of the environment in the Baltic region could be organised efficiently and simply.
I myself believe that the Helsinki Commission could provide a framework, not only for the main area of focus, the protection of the marine environment, but also the implementation of the Baltic Sea Agenda 21 programme, and the possible coordination of sound regional planning.
The long-term aim on the whole could be to extend the Helsinki Convention to cover the whole of the Baltic region with the objective of applying in practice the principle of sustainable development.
The revised Convention could also serve as a model for other regions.
Mr President, these are true and important things which all the previous speakers have said, to the effect that the Baltic is a sick sea and that the EU has a major responsibility for this.
Every necessary measure needs therefore to be taken in order to improve the situation.
I think that Mrs Myller expressed a lot of points of view in her statement which we must make good use of.
I think it is important for us to see what opportunities we have to renew the Baltic Commission' s work in conjunction with the water planning directive, which we are also discussing here.
I have tried on a number of occasions to bring together these two areas of expertise on the basis that we should be looking at both at the same time and at the ways in which effective use might be made of the Helsinki Commission for this purpose.
My hope is that it might be possible to bring together at least those who are now here in the Chamber in order to look into this.
Annex 3 itself, relating to agriculture, does not perhaps inspire particularly great hope that it might entail anything new compared, for example, with the environmental strategies and programmes we already have.
On the other hand, I hope that, next week in Helsinki, we can, as has been said, approve ambitious objectives for agriculture and the environment.
As we think of renewing the work, it is also important that the Helsinki Commission' s efforts should be open to public scrutiny.
We were therefore very disappointed to see that the results of the work carried out a good year ago on hot spots was not published because Sweden opposed any such publication.
This was a small blemish on what was otherwise very sound work.
I would add that the work on creating plant for receiving waste is extremely important.
I believe that we must watch our step so that we do not jeopardise what we have here in this Convention and that we should not in any way be trying to achieve something else - a 'best' which would in actual fact be the 'enemy of the good' .
Mr President, I can see that we have a Nordic dimension to the Chamber this evening.
Just as the rapporteur pointed out in his report, and also here, the changes to Annexes 3 and 4 to the Convention on the Baltic' s marine environment have already been adopted and will come into force in a month' s time.
Consulting the European Parliament is therefore a procedure which cannot have any real effect.
That is naturally a little odd and also rather annoying.
Fortunately, the changes to the Convention are very good indeed for environmental work.
They are aimed at reducing agricultural discharges of nitrogen and phosphorus and, especially, pesticides and at reducing discharges from ships and pleasurecraft.
We know that some very single-minded environmental work and some purposeful political decisions are required in order to restore the ecological balance of the Baltic.
Changes to the Helsinki Convention contain general rules which will also certainly have an effect on EU legislation, especially with regard to agricultural policy.
It would have been interesting if we had had an opportunity to discuss this issue and express views on it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all, of course, to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and also rapporteur Sjöstedt for the work he has done on elucidating the changes to Annexes 3 and 4 of the Helsinki Convention.
As you know, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted the report on 19 October 1999.
I think it is good that we have had the opportunity to discuss this in the House today.
It is with satisfaction, of course, that I note that the rapporteur welcomes the proposed changes to the Convention.
The proposal in fact moves that the changes to the two Annexes should be adopted by the European Community.
As mentioned, Annex 3 is mainly concerned with agricultural discharges.
The proposed changes are, in fact, aimed at reducing discharges of nitrogen, phosphorus and pesticides used in agriculture.
The purpose of the other Annex is to reduce discharges from ships.
Regarding Mr Sjöstedt' s concern that the Commission would not look adequately at the changes that need to be made and his concern about the effects which this would necessarily have on EU legislation, he is worrying unnecessarily.
There are no major problems.
The Commission has naturally made sure that we can make these changes and shall do so.
If the Commission signs a Convention, we must also ensure that we can honour the commitments in such a Convention, something which will not cause any problems.
There was also a Finnish front here which I have to say I agree with.
I think there is an important link with the northern dimension and that we should ideally be marrying the Helsinki Convention and the work that is being done under the heading of the northern dimension.
I therefore think that remarks of this kind are in order.
The Commission is also working along those lines, that is to say to ensure that we can coordinate, and benefit from, the work that is being done in different places.
This can reinforce the environmental work being done in connection with the Baltic.
In addition, the Helsinki Convention ought to support the work by means of sustainable development for the Baltic.
Discussions to this effect have begun.
We in the Commission are therefore aware of the need for increased environmental cooperation in the Baltic region.
We are convinced that the changes to the Convention constitute an important, albeit small, contribution towards achieving that goal.
The report criticises the way in which the adoption procedure was carried out.
The rapporteur maintains that the changes had already been adopted on 1 January 1999 and that the work carried out in the European Parliament was therefore meaningless.
It is true that the Convention' s executive body, HELCOM adopted the changes on 29 March 1998 and that the parties to the Treaty were given the deadline of 1 January 1999 to produce changes.
However, the Commission lodged an incidental objection to make it possible to consult with the European Parliament and the Council.
That objection still applies.
The Commission' s interpretation of the situation is therefore that, as long as the Commission has not withdrawn its incidental objection, the changes have not come into force.
The consultation procedure is therefore valid, and I should also like to thank you in the European Parliament for your contributions.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Marketing of forest reproductive material
The next item is the report (A5-0072/1999) by Mr Pesälä, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council directive on the marketing of forest reproductive material [COM(1999) 188 - C5-0128/1999 - 1999/0092(CNS)].
Mr President, this directive on the marketing of forest reproductive material is really based on the merger of two earlier directives.
In addition, there has been considerable progress made in research and development over the decades and, for that reason too, it is naturally a good idea to review matters.
Furthermore, the accession of Sweden, Austria and Finland meant that the EU' s forest resources immediately doubled.
On account of all this, it is excellent that these reviews and adjustments are being undertaken.
In addition, there is the matter of harmonisation with OECD schemes.
That is also a good thing and will enable us in future to trade in this material beyond the borders of the EU, which should also be taken into consideration.
The material in question has now been classified into four categories, whereas previously there were two.
This now guarantees there will be a sort of certificate, a guarantee that the right goods get to the right place.
It ensures that no errors - which the large afforested countries of the north have also experienced - occur.
Details relating to the area of provenance must also be defined on a map.
The maps are to be sent to the Commission and a comprehensive list of goods associated with forest reproduction must also be kept.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development tabled numerous amendments, and they were mainly targeted at the timetable for implementation.
The Commission had proposed too tight a schedule and, for that reason, the entry into force of the directive has been postponed until 2003, so that the Member States can revise legislation as called for by this directive.
The transition period for some countries was also taken into account and thus the period of transition was increased by a couple of years for those countries whose period of transition would otherwise have expired.
In some countries there are rather large stocks because good seed years only occur at intervals of 10 to 15 years, and so the seeds have to be stored for very long periods of time in order that stocks are not exhausted.
The possibility of utilising and exhausting stocks was a very important issue, as has been remarked upon in this report.
In addition, we spoke a lot about genetic resources. That is a very sensitive issue at the moment and, naturally, we tried to bring this proposal in line with EU practice.
Similarly, this proposal also consider the health of plants and changes in their health.
As I understand it, there will be two more amendments to this report in tomorrow' s vote, if I may be allowed to comment briefly on them.
As rapporteur, I can agree with Amendment No 23 if three words are added to the recital where the amendment will appear: "special climatic conditions of certain regions, such as the Alps, the Mediterranean and northern regions" .
If this is added I will be able to agree to it, as rapporteur.
As for Amendment No 24, which has also been made for tomorrow, I can state that this amendment is now already incorporated into Article 4(3)(a), which is a new subparagraph and which was added for precisely this purpose.
Mr President, I am very pleased about this new proposal concerning forest reproductive material because it offers new opportunities or, rather, gives the old opportunities a new lease of life, above all with a view to there being several categories of material.
The expression of known origin will make it possible to maintain the genetic and biological diversity of the forest in local regions and on land given over to forests.
True, our forests are certainly producers of renewable material, but they are also infinitely more than just raw materials.
The forest is also home to a great diversity of biological life. It is also an important means of trapping carbon dioxide and it is perhaps the earth' s most important regulator of the climate and water supply.
The forest also has a spiritual dimension.
It represents peace and quiet, silence and tranquillity for stressed-out urban men and women, especially if they were born in the northern dimension.
It is therefore important that forests be treated as diverse in their own right and as having a diversity of functions.
I therefore repeat that I am very glad that, as the proposal now reads, there exists this opportunity to maintain the genetic and biological diversity of the forests.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, allow me to start by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent cooperation in drafting the report.
I speak on behalf of my group when I say that we fully support the rapporteur.
Europe is a continent rich in forests and forests are tremendously important.
We should all bear in mind the fact that the use of forests is not only in the economic interest, it is, above all, in the environmental interest of all of us.
What I mean is that forests have a multi-functional role.
I should like to remind you today of the major avalanche catastrophe a year ago in Galtür because it demonstrates how important it is for all of us to treat nature with respect; the alpine area in particular is a very sensitive zone, as people who know the area are obliged to testify time and time again.
Not only the people who live in the Alps, but everyone who likes to go on skiing or walking holidays in the Alps each year, appreciates an intact mountain environment in which the dangers are kept to a minimum.
The reforestation of the Bannwald is particularly important.
That is why reproductive material, which guarantees that forests will withstand the harsh climate, is absolutely essential and indispensable to the safety of the Alps.
I consider it absolutely essential for the reproductive material to come from the very area where the climatic conditions apply genuinely, and for the reproductive material to be appropriate to the climatic conditions.
Member States must therefore have the facility to stipulate the selection criteria for reproductive material in a non-bureaucratic manner, because nothing will be more devastating than when it is too late to prevent damage to the forest land as a whole.
I should like to point out that it is not only the Alps but, above all, the Nordic areas, the polar areas and also the southern areas which have special requirements in this respect.
Mr President, Commissioner, we welcome this proposal for a directive for several reasons, one of which is the extension of its scope.
It now encompasses not only wood production but also other forest objectives such as cork and the protection of genetic resources.
We should also congratulate ourselves because it now identifies different categories and encourages the protection given by reforestation and not just wood production.
It allows maximum variability from the genetic viewpoint, thereby guaranteeing adaptation.
In the main the proposal responds to the differing needs of the Member States and includes the principle of subsidiarity.
The accession of the Nordic and Mediterranean countries to the European Union is the main reason for updating the current directive which regulates the marketing of forest plants and seeds and which has not been substantially amended since 1975.
The text of the directive coincides on the basic aspects of objective, number of categories, definitions of basic materials and so on with the world' s other main system of marketing forest reproductive material, namely the OECD.
Work has been carried out in recent years to update this system and an improved text is now pending approval by the Council.
Coherence between these texts can only assist the marketing of these materials.
I must also congratulate Mr Pesälä on his report.
I agree that the date set for the entry into force of the directive cannot be 1 January 2000 but must be postponed by at least three years to give the Member States time to comply with the directive.
Other amendments by other Members, such as those tabled by Mrs Schierhuber, must also be welcomed. They include an amendment on the strengthening of the control of trade flows by an official certificate of origin.
However, there is one very important point which we must consider. The explanatory statement specified that the external quality of materials was guaranteed, yet point (d) of Annex VII deals with this in a very general manner.
This is not a trivial issue.
Plant quality is essential in the Mediterranean environment where reforestation is carried out under very difficult conditions.
Experience has taught us that plants of certain sizes cannot survive in a particular environment. This is true in many areas of southern Europe where the drought conditions are extreme.
In order to assist their establishment, this means using container-grown plants with good root systems, whereas in other countries plants without any roots can successfully grow.
The external quality of plants has a big impact, not only on the percentage which survive, which can range from 20% to 85%, but also on their future development in the extremely harsh conditions of their transfer to this climate.
External quality is one of the factors which determines the quality of the woodland of the future.
A lack of regulation of the external quality of plants may therefore cause very serious problems as this will allow all sizes of plant to be placed on the market.
You should bear in mind that some Member States already have laws on this subject.
It is in the interests of the whole European environment to ensure that plantations are correctly established so that a large proportion do not fail.
The plants must be suitable and adaptable because, unfortunately, in many corners of the European Union, you cannot plant what you want, only what is practical.
To ensure that adequate consideration is given to this unresolved problem in the text of the proposal, the Council is trying to reach agreement on the incorporation of a new point 7. This will contain the external characteristics which must be satisfied, for their marketing in the Mediterranean areas of the Community, by the forest species best adapted to the difficult soil and climate conditions of these areas.
I applaud and encourage this solution to which I hope the European Commission will agree.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am reminded in this context of the saying: they cannot see the wood for the trees.
It is reasonable that this directive needs to be updated as a result of the accession of new Member States and the development of the single market and forest research.
It is reasonable that EU labelling should be harmonised in order to facilitate trade within the EU and with the OECD.
But the directive takes no account of the differing needs of the Member States.
In the view of our specialists in Germany, in the view of the German forestry industry and the forest nursery industry, this new directive will have a lasting negative impact.
Monitoring should be confined to forest undertakings and should not, as the report provides, apply to all undertakings, as these requirements would then affect undertakings which produce no forest reproductive material at all.
The willingness of successive farmers to plant forests in my region is receding sharply.
This increasing prevalent basic attitude is dictated by financial considerations.
I would just like to say to the House that I know what I am talking about because the forest economy has longed played an important role in our own undertaking and I would like in this context to point out the life-threatening situation in the Germany forest nurseries.
Given the change in forestry in my country towards natural regeneration, massive cutbacks in planting requirements and a lack of public funds, I feel that I really must draw the House' s attention to this.
The monitoring system is now supposed to be up and running by 2003.
Our experts tell me that they think this deadline is too short.
The directive is unacceptable in this respect; it fails to take account of geographical and regional differences within the EU.
In northern countries we have to cope with huge forest areas with a single registration number, so that the new regulation holds no problem whatsoever in store for these areas.
I would like to more or less keep to my allotted time, but we should bear in mind during the overall debate that we must not only take account of the Nordic point of view and we must not only consider the enthusiasm of mountain lovers in Austria; we in the middle of the EU, and this includes Germany, set great store by open clauses, so that the whole system can remain truly practicable.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and of course its rapporteur, Mr Pesälä, for the very positive approach adopted towards the Commission proposal; and the Commission appreciates the broad acceptance of its proposal.
The present proposal aims to update the current legislation on the marketing of forest reproductive material to take account of the accession of new Member States since 1975, the internal market and scientific advances.
Twenty-two amendments have been proposed.
I can accept the large majority of them as they stand or with minor modification in respect of their drafting or presentation.
The Commission can accept the Amendment No 23 proposed now by Mr Pesälä.
I would like to comment on the four amendments which the Commission cannot accept.
Firstly, I will comment on Amendment No 4.
According to the proposed amendment, an explicit reference to the principle of subsidiarity should be inserted within the recitals.
The Commission is not in favour.
The proposal is based on Article 37 of the Treaty, and therefore falls within the exclusive competence of the Community.
However, the Commission proposal has fully recognised the specificity of the conditions of certain Member States or certain parts thereof and the text explicitly reflects this position.
Then we come to Amendment No 7.
The Commission provides in the first part of Article 5(2)b that the procedures ensuring the environmental risk assessment and other relevant elements should be equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 90/220.
They will be introduced in a future regulation.
According to the proposed amendment, the generic expression of the relevant elements should be replaced with a positive list of elements.
The Commission feels that this is inappropriate taking into account that any exhaustive list would limit unnecessarily the scope of the provision.
Insofar as the second part of the amendment is concerned, I can agree to the addition of a reference to the European Parliament in the future regulation.
Amendment No 10: according to the proposed amendment, an official certificate of origin should accompany each consignment of forest reproductive material during marketing.
The Commission agrees with the aim to ensure that trade flow should be controlled but the introduction of such a certificate would represent an unnecessary burden for trade.
According to the Commission, it would be preferable to introduce appropriate amendments in respect of the existing master certificate.
Finally Amendment No 17: according to the proposed amendment, Member States shall specify the requirements their reproductive material should meet in order to be considered well adapted to particular climatic conditions or exposed upland situations.
The Commission is in favour of justified derogations when they are well defined in respect of their content, for example, for a Community region with specific climatic conditions and in respect of the procedures to be followed.
The Commission feels that the proposed amendment is too broadly based and introduces the possibility for Member States to unilaterally prohibit the marketing of forest reproductive material.
Those are my comments, and I would like to thank you for your attention and thank once again the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
COM in processed fruit and vegetable products
The next item is the report (A5-0068/1999) by Mrs Ayuso González, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 on the common organisation of the markets in processed fruit and vegetable products [COM(1999) 376 - C5-0140/1999 - 1999/0161(CNS)].
. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 provides for the payment of aid to the tomato processing industry with a view to compensating it for the difference between the raw material price on the Community market and that on the world market.
This aid is granted for a global EU quota of nearly 7 million tonnes, distributed at five-yearly intervals by product group of peeled tomatoes, tomato concentrate and other products.
It is also distributed at yearly intervals, by Member State, on the basis of the average minimum price over the three marketing years preceding the year of distribution.
Under this Regulation, quotas were allocated for the marketing years 1997-1998 and 1998-1999. These were slightly modified in 1997 in terms of the distribution between the various product groups.
Subsequently, for the next marketing year, the distribution was carried out on the basis of the quantities in compliance with the minimum price over the previous three marketing years, as specified by Article 6.4 of this Regulation.
More than just amending the Regulation, the proposal adopts a Council of Ministers' agreement. This is actually a derogation from the Regulation as Portugal did not produce the quota which it was allocated for the marketing year 1997-1998, apparently due to bad weather.
It is proposed that, for calculation purposes, Portugal is allocated a supplementary amount of 83,468 tonnes for 1999-2000 and, for 2001-2002, the difference between the quota calculated on the basis of the amount actually processed in 1997-1998 and the quota resulting if that figure is replaced by 884,592 tonnes.
This will have no financial repercussions for the other Member States as the Commission has made provision for an ad hoc budget to finance this supplementary amount for Portugal.
However, this Council of Ministers' agreement has caused some concern among producers in the other Member States, particularly Spain, Italy and Greece, which are very competitive in tomato processing and production.
As the President is aware, there have even been demonstrations at the Ministry of Agriculture in Spain by those who feel that Portugal is being accorded an advantage.
A fairer, clearer and more transparent method of contracts and allocations would be the threshold system, rather than the quota system. To a certain extent this would satisfy the producers of those countries which are more competitive.
However, neither the Agriculture Committee nor this House intend to deny Portugal this supplementary amount to enable it to adapt and become increasingly competitive in its tomato production.
Yet this would be a good opportunity to move from the quota system to the system of thresholds for individual Member States. This is the line taken by the amendments which I have tabled on this proposal to amend the Regulation.
The first two amendments are to the recitals and state that the aid for tomato processing is important and that the quota is insufficient. The third amendment states that the Commission will submit, before the start of the next marketing year, a proposal for moving from quotas to thresholds.
I hope the Commission accepts this.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me first to congratulate my colleague on her first report.
I should like to include a few thoughts in my contribution which, I believe, not only deal with a purely technical matter but also offer a basic starting point, in that I think we should take a much more global approach to agricultural policy from the outset.
European agriculture, and we all support a European agricultural model, must be configured so that farmers throughout Europe have a chance of survival.
Agriculture and the whole of rural society must be viable, so that the generations which follow us inherit a habitat that is intact.
This means that farming must be possible both in favoured areas and in disadvantaged and climatically exposed regions and peripheral areas.
One of the remarkable features of our agriculture is its multi-functionality in the rural society and it must be configured so that farmers find optimum conditions for all manner of crops.
One of the outstanding features of Europe is its variety and I am referring here not only to the variety of regions and cultures but also to the variety of products and foodstuffs which make Europe unique.
Farmers make a huge contribution to the cultural identity of a region or a country because the products cultivated, the primary production, colours not only the cuisine but also the customs and philosophy of life of the people down through the generations.
It also gives us close ties with our homeland.
Without regional roots from which to develop, there can be no foundation and no basis for the future.
Traditional cuisine, which has developed from regional crops, and these crops must of course be suited to the climate, is a delight to the palate, both of the local people and of anyone who enjoys trying different foods.
It is precisely this wealth of local and regional specialities which is unique to Europe and it must be preserved because it is a treasure trove which compares with no other region in the world.
Europe, I say it again, is and must remain in the future distinctive, famous and loved.
So I ask you: have you ever been to southern Europe and tasted the tomatoes which flourish there?
They are distinctive.
I think that we should ensure within the framework of European agricultural policy that these tomatoes can continue to be cultivated, harvested and processed in these regions.
Suitable regulations must be laid down so that, when there are crop failures, there are also reasonable, flexible quota arrangements and a non-bureaucratic approach.
One thing must be made clear at the same time, however, and that is that all these actions must go hand in glove with strict control and monitoring measures. I think that this would be a positive starting point for numerous sectors in the future.
Mr President, Mrs Ayuso has carried out an important piece of parliamentary work with this report. I, too, am in favour of the benefit to be gained through this measure by a fellow Member State as dear to me as Portugal.
This is all positive.
On the other hand, I am against and in fact I condemn the way in which the Council has proceeded.
It is reprehensible that the Council of Ministers should have decided on these disgraceful advantages, aimed at softening the blow of Agenda 2000.
I am not surprised that the Council is absent. It dare not show its face for it is ashamed by this grand finale, this final distribution of shameful perks, or should we say this muddle to end all muddles?
For this is the way in which the Council of Ministers has proceeded with regard to the how, when and why of this measure.
We said as much on 14 June when we told President Aznar that he was failing to defend the interests of Spain and that he was damaging Spain' s representation with this attitude.
This is still true.
As far as this House is concerned, these are facts confirmed by the vote in Council and we are left to point out that this measure has caused great concern among producers in the other Member States. We must also stress that this exceptional measure is not provided for in the Regulation and that other Member States have also suffered bad weather at times but they have not had the advantage which Portugal is now enjoying.
This advantage amounts to an increase in the Portuguese concentrate quota of 83,468 tonnes for the marketing year 1999-2000, plus other benefits for the marketing year 2000-2001, including retroactive quota increases, for example those of 1997 and 1998, of 83,468 tonnes as supplementary amounts.
An ad hoc budget is authorised for all this.
For the year 2000 this will amount to over ESP 500 million - ESP 532 million to be exact - which is equivalent to EUR 3.2 million.
So, congratulations to Portugal and shame on the Council.
The rapporteur has been very explicit but has no understanding of why we have a regulation which is a tangle of incomprehensibilities and exceptions.
The Council has worsened it instead of improving it.
Mr President, we support the Commission' s proposal for a temporary increase in the Portuguese processed tomato quota as a means of compensating for the low levels of production in the year 1997-1998 due to bad weather.
It should also be noted that this additional sum does not even compensate for the whole potential production in normal weather conditions; it merely mitigates the loss that has been mentioned, which was incurred when the Member States distributed the quotas.
Concerning the proposals put forward in the report, we also feel that there needs to be reform, given that the current situation has harmful effects - as experience has already shown - but we must bear in mind that any reform will still have to take the results of the current year into account and the potential levels of production in Portugal under normal weather conditions.
We therefore think that it is more sensible to increase and improve the current system for calculating quotas with increases in line with the total amounts of production aid and not to move towards a system of guarantee thresholds that could penalise all farmers and not just those who exceed their quotas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. She was willing to make proposals in the second part and she also formulated suggestions for future policy.
We are discussing production aid for processed tomato products.
This aid is based on processing quotas which correspond to a specific quantity of fresh tomatoes.
The regulation makes provision for quotas to be distributed between Member States every year on the basis of production in previous years.
The weather in Portugal was particularly bad during the 1997/98 marketing year.
This resulted in a net drop in tomato production, which in turn led to a reduction of 83,468 tonnes in the Portuguese tomato concentrate quota when the quotas were distributed for the 1999/2000 marketing year and a concomitant increase in the quotas of three other Member States.
A similar situation will arise when the quotas are distributed for the 2000/01 marketing year.
The purpose of the present draft regulation is to solve this problem; in other words, it increases the Portuguese tomato concentrate quota by 83,468 tonnes for the 1999/2000 marketing year and includes special provisions for setting quotas for the forthcoming 2000/01 marketing year.
What we have is a one-off change to the quota distribution system which is limited in time.
Its purpose is to solve a specific problem which has arisen in one Member State.
This amendment notwithstanding, the Commission intends to conduct a comprehensive review of this regulation.
The Commission will forward the results of this review to the Council during the year 2000.
Any amendments needed to the regulation and subsequent amendments to the regulation could then be applied with effect from the 2001/02 marketing year.
The Commission will look into the recommendations in the three proposed amendments in detail as part of this comprehensive review.
The purpose of the amendments tabled is mainly to replace quotas with a guarantee threshold, to be divided between the Member States, and to increase these quantities.
Until such time as the results are available from this comprehensive review, which will also take account of budgetary constraints, the Commission cannot accept these proposed amendments.
I say this because these proposed amendments go far beyond the very limited specific problem on which a decision is needed today, but I would like to stress that the Commission acknowledges that the proposed amendments are most constructive.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
(The sitting was closed at 10.50 p.m.)
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Are there any comments?
Mr President, I would like to express my extreme disappointment at the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors did not give his report yesterday.
He should have given his report.
He should have cancelled any other engagements he had.
He should have prioritised giving that report to Parliament.
We only ask him to do that once a year, and any other engagement should have been secondary to this very important opportunity to let us know exactly how he feels about the European institutions.
I am very disappointed, and I would ask you to write to the President of the Court of Auditors to express the disappointment of the House.
Thank you very much for your comments, Mrs Morgan.
I shall do so.
I must also say that I have noted your comments and that the Conference of Presidents will also be taking note of this matter.
Mr President, I have a point to make on the same subject.
Time was obviously in short supply, yet the agenda went out on time and we knew how things were to proceed.
I deeply regret that this happened and that the impression has now been given that Parliament was not prepared to accept the report.
I would urge that we take up contact with the Court and arrange things in such a way that there is enough time for the Court' s report at the next part-session in Strasbourg. However, we also need to ensure that the President can attend and present his report.
It is not acceptable for us to be forever postponing this.
I would not wish there to be a major interinstitutional fall-out over this.
It is quite usual for us to receive this report at the end of the year, normally in November.
This could have been done in this part-session.
It is a matter of deep regret to me that it could not be so.
Thank you very much, Mrs Theato. Your comments are relevant and fair and I think that in the next part-session, in Strasbourg, things will be done and organised in accordance with your protest, or rather, your comments.
Mr President, when a Parliament, in a most irresponsible way, closes the door to political opinions, as happened yesterday among us, it is opening wide the door to armed struggle.
We, Euskal Herritarrok, believe that political conflicts have to be settled by political means, but what we have seen in this House was in fact support for violence.
This Parliament undoubtedly backed the Northern Ireland peace process, and I also wholeheartedly congratulate the Irish people and everybody inside the United Kingdom for their success.
The 1993 Downing Street Declaration, recognising the right to self determination of the Irish people, shows us better than anything else that only through political negotiation can a real and lasting solution be found anywhere.
Could we expect a similar analysis from the European Union to the on-going political conflict existing in the Basque country?
Could your European Parliament, Mr President, highlight the example of John Major and David Trimble to show Mr Jospin and Mr Aznar the path they have to embark on immediately?
Mr President, I asked for the floor yesterday but was not allowed to speak by the President at the time.
I simply wanted to say, firstly, that the Spanish Constitution establishes a model of self-government which is infinitely more generous than that achieved by Northern Ireland.
Secondly, this self-government has mainly been exercised by nationalist forces and, at the moment, is exclusively so.
Unlike Northern Ireland, the ministerial posts are not shared between nationalists and non-nationalists.
There are political forces - we have just seen them here - which disagree with the constitutional model given to us by the Spanish.
However, our Constitution allows this disagreement to be voiced by peaceful and democratic means. The parties aiming to destroy constitutional order enter the elections under the flag of independence.
What has to be decided at this point is whether or not it is legal to eliminate those who disagree.
Mr President, I would like to end by saying that, for 40 years, the children of my generation listened wearily to a rhetoric which asserted that ballot-boxes were better off destroyed and that words should be replaced by fists and guns.
The children who left Spain with clean hands will not return to hear this rhetoric again.
Mr García-Margallo, as you know, and however important what you have said may be, this debate is clearly not on the Agenda, and I must keep to the Agenda.
(The Minutes were approved)
Introduction of the Euro
The next item is the report (A5-0076/1999) by Mrs Torres Marques, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the report from the Commission to the Council: Duration of the transitional period related to the introduction of the euro (COM(99) 174 - C5­0108/1999).
Mr President, I have here an illustration on the subject of my report that I would like to be distributed to all those present.
I would be grateful if you would instruct that this be done.
I would like to begin my intervention by thanking Commissioner Pedro Solbes Mira for being here today in the Chamber.
I was told that the Commissioner had prior engagements, a meeting with the Central Banks, but that when he was told this debate was to take place at the same time, he chose to be here in Parliament today.
I would like to acknowledge his choice and to thank him.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of this report is the duration of the transitional period of the euro.
On my proposal, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs agreed to broaden its scope as the subject that had been proposed had, in the meantime, been superseded by various events, one of which was the European Parliament' s own electoral process.
Now, we have other real problems.
The more hearings I have attended and the more reports I have read on these matters, the more convinced I am that the general tendency is, on the one hand, towards a drastic curtailing of the transitional period for the dual circulation of national currency units and euros and, on the other, towards having a frontloading period which it is anticipated will start from 1 December 2001.
The more we look into this problem and the more we talk to those directly involved - consumers and retailers - the more we see that the predominant idea is that the longer the period of dual circulation, the more complicated things will be.
The idea that 'extending the transitional period will make things easier' is finding fewer and fewer supporters.
The illustration that I asked to be distributed gives a better explanation than many arguments can of the difficulties that we may have to face.
Accepting as we do that the transitional period should last until 1 January 2002, it is now important to raise the other problems, the proper resolution of which is of great importance to the credibility of the euro that we all wish to see.
Therefore, in this report, Mr President, Commissioner, only maximum periods are referred to and preference is given to periods which are as short as possible so that all scenarios might be viable, even the legal 'big bang' if, by 2002, this is accepted as the best solution.
Our main proposals are:
firstly, a period of dual circulation of national currency units and euros which is as short as possible;
secondly, a period of advance feeding or "frontloading" to banks, retailers, public administrations and consumers from 1 December 2001;
thirdly, to set prices in euros with their equivalent in the national currency, preferably by 1 January 2001;
fourthly, information campaigns of increasing intensity until 2002, particularly for the most vulnerable groups, through systematic action together with the education system, NGOs and the media in general; particularly prime time television, television news broadcasts and sports programmes with high viewing figures;
fifthly, the increased use of electronic money, credit and debit cards and the creation of an electronic card or purse which can be used throughout the euro zone as soon as is technically possible and that its use is widespread enough for the cost to be minimal;
sixthly, the adaptation of vending machines for the use of charge cards until 2002 which will enable them, as far as possible, to work with coins and notes;
seventhly, the creation, to be postponed until 2002 at the latest, of an integrated payment system which will enable us to transform the euro zone into a market with the same rules as domestic markets.
Mr President, each one of the issues addressed in this report requires more detailed and deeper examination, as their application needs to be completely secure, clear and fully accepted by our citizens.
We therefore hope that the Commission will introduce the measures that it feels must be adopted in this area.
On account of its implications for the lives of our citizens, this issue must be closely supported by the European Parliament, the direct representative of the electors.
I hope that the Commission, the Council and the European Central Bank only take decisions that are fundamental to this issue, having consulted us first.
Mr President, the third phase of Economic and Monetary Union entered into effect on 1 January of this year, as detailed in the Madrid scenario.
Also, in accordance with this scenario, the Council, backed by this House, has decided that euro coins and banknotes will be circulated as legal tender as from 1 January 2002.
One of Madrid' s key contributions is that it drafted a clear schedule early on, which was preceded by extensive deliberation.
My group supports the Commission in its viewpoint that the so-called transitional period should ideally be maintained, despite the fact that its lapsing coincides with the frantic Christmas shopping period.
Preparations are now too far advanced to be able to successfully implement any changes.
On 1 January 2002, the euro will become legal tender within the euro zone.
National currency units will remain in circulation for a maximum of six months, but national legislators may decide to shorten this period within their territories.
Many will not be fully aware of the advent of the euro and monetary union until they have to make the changeover in their own purses.
Whether or not the general public will accept all the work involved in Economic and Monetary Union will be determined by the way in which the actual changeover around 2002 will pan out.
All predictable and avoidable complications and hitches must therefore be ironed out beforehand.
In my group, many fear the confusion, lack of security, feelings of uncertainty and waste of time brought on by dual currency circulation.
The 'big bang' scenario remains attractive to us, but not all Member States share this opinion, hence our appeal to at least keep periods of dual currency circulation to a minimum.
At any rate, a smooth transition accompanied by a short period of dual currency circulation or not, as the case may be, is impossible without frontloading.
To our great relief, the European Central Bank has abandoned its previous stance against frontloading.
Frontloading is a must in order to make the practical introduction of the euro a success.
In the resolution, we recommend frontloading subject to cautious conditions.
I would also like to comment on two other aspects.
Firstly, we share the rapporteur' s vision that in the case of dual circulation, change in the retail trade should be given in euros.
This will, in fact, help shorten the period of dual currency circulation within Member States.
Secondly, we are convinced that dual price display is a good thing.
Alongside euros, we definitely want to see pricing in national currency for a period after 2002.
This is mainly beneficial to the consumer but the retail trade too realises that it stands to benefit from this.
However, to talk about imposing statutory obligations concerning these two aspects now does not seem appropriate to us, certainly not at this early stage.
You will have realised that, according to the PPE Group, Mrs Torres Marques has done a sterling job and we fully endorse her report.
We will only suggest a few refinements when the amendments are discussed at the vote.
We hope that the Member States and also the European institutions will continue to bear in mind that we are also to be consulted at future stages, so that the introduction of euro coins and banknotes in 2002 will be a huge success.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Helena Torres Marques on her excellent report.
Mr President, the euro is already the second most important currency in the world.
The actual introduction of the euro from 2002 will dramatically increase the demand for euros.
Although the euro has depreciated over the last few months in relation to the dollar, this is not only due to the current difference in the dynamism and the performance of the American and European economies.
The fact that, for the moment, the euro is only a representative currency and will not become a paper currency until 2002, also explains the certain lack of interest among the European and international public in this new currency that you cannot yet feel or touch.
Nevertheless, the financial markets in general have welcomed the euro.
Since it was introduced at the beginning of this year, the volume of private bonds issued in euros has increased by over 50%.
For the first seven months of this year on the international capital markets, issues in euros represented 27% of international issues.
Meanwhile, issues in dollars over the same seven month period fell from 57% to 50%, which shows that there is already a very strong real demand by the markets.
There is another problem, to which I should like to draw the attention of this House, and that is the huge money supply of Deutschmarks, French francs and other European currencies circulating outside the frontiers of Europe.
According to a report by the German Bundesbank, over one hundred billion Deutschmarks are used as a daily reserve currency by the citizens of Eastern Europe.
There are also billions of French francs circulating in French-speaking Africa and all this money must be changed into euros.
For the moment, the people holding these banknotes are trying to move towards the dollar, which also perhaps explains, to a certain extent, the fluctuation to the detriment of the euro.
I should like to ask the Commission whether it should not take the initiative in drawing the attention of the Central European Bank and the national central banks to this problem, that is to say, the necessary exchange of all the European currencies that will disappear in 2002 with the actual introduction of the euro.
I believe that there is a real problem here which has not been adequately discussed and in respect of which the Commission would be well advised to take an initiative in order to organise this exchange with dignity.
Mr President, Commissioner, we remain convinced that the euro is a good thing.
The euro is not a goal in itself, but a means to serve the European citizen, a strong economy, employment and the international status of the European Union.
It is a means to promote more stability, more transparency, more clarity, more convenience of payment, more saving options and better investment opportunities.
I will not repeat what the honourable rapporteur has already stated as to how we need to tackle the changeover of national currency units to euros in practical terms, but I would like to make two observations regarding her report.
Firstly, the euro probably has only one drawback, namely the inevitable transitional period; that is to say, all the adjustments required to fully integrate the national currency units into the new tender.
If we wish to limit the damage, then it is indeed important to keep the period of dual currency circulation to a minimum.
If it is based on sound framework measures, there is no need for initial hesitation before taking the final and definitive step towards the euro.
I therefore back the technical measures proposed by the rapporteur.
I would congratulate her on the level of clarity displayed.
Secondly, we are responsible for keeping the attention given to, and interest in, the euro alive.
The present situation is not conducive in this respect.
The introduction of the euro on 1 January this year enjoyed a great deal of attention, even a certain euphoria, but it all went quiet after that for the single currency.
The euro is still too far removed from the European citizen.
It is still a while before 2002, when the euro will be introduced as actual currency.
This is too long according to public opinion.
The appetite has gone.
Moreover, this interim phase creates far too many insecurities.
In short, we need to be able to maintain our belief in and enthusiasm for the euro during the warming-up stage as well, although ensuring at the same time that people do not lose interest before the euro actually takes off.
After all, the euro needs to remain a success and we need to make every effort to achieve this.
Mr President, the euro has aroused great expectations but it has also created many problems, for example, for businesses in the north of Italy that are being burdened with extremely high taxes and whose competitiveness can no longer be ensured by means of changes in the exchange rate.
Moreover, investors who have decided to convert their money into dollars or pounds sterling have undoubtedly reaped greater rewards up till now than those who invested in the euro.
One final point: today the currencies of the various countries could be viewed as subcurrencies of the euro, but the banks do not see it this way.
Today, even on small amounts there is much more commission when buying and selling lira, Belgian francs or French francs than when buying dollars or pounds sterling.
I think that we should take action on this.
Mr President, the closer we get to the introduction of the euro, the more reasonable the viewpoints and wishes of the European Parliament become with regard to the introduction of the euro in circulation.
Meanwhile, virtually everyone in this House shares the view that 1 January 2002 is really the earliest date and that government offices, banks and mint establishments have to pull out all the stops in order to meet this deadline
Recital K, which contains a complaint to the effect that the electronic euro is lacking in immediate practical benefits, is still a leftover of the unrealistic expectations which were - and apparently still are - prevalent among a majority of MEPs.
The fact that the euro propaganda campaign is not delivering the goods is entirely down to a lack of sense of reality which is playing tricks here.
I strongly object to the proposal to provide the European citizen with euro coins and banknotes before 1 January 2002.
This contravenes the Treaty and also plays into the hands of counterfeiters.
They too will then be provided with the material to be copied sooner and will be able to better exploit the confusion easily created among the citizens.
We would much prefer it if the European Central Bank and the European Commission, in tandem with the commercial banks, were to ensure that the general public receives sound, detailed information on the design and security features of the euro coins and banknotes, starting no later than 1 November 2001.
Mr President, except for paragraphs 7, 8, 10, 12 and 16, we can support the motion for a resolution.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are all agreed that the single currency is a prerequisite for a functioning internal market, that the stable currency also contributes to social and economic security within Europe and that the euro is a success story, due not least to the fact that it has led to a reduction of deficits in our Member States and to low inflation.
A new chapter in this story is now opening and must be characterised by the following elements: public confidence in, and acceptance of, the euro must be further strengthened.
The measures taken must result in legal security and must be transparent, the citizens must be given comprehensive information, and a smooth-running changeover is an essential prerequisite for this.
The changeover will only run smoothly if there is adequate frontloading for banks, commerce, citizens and the requisite machines from where citizens obtain their cash.
I would like to pick out one aspect alone.
It seems to me that the concept of commerce has not yet been clearly defined.
For example, will the tourist industry come under the heading of commerce, i.e. will frontloading apply, bearing in mind that a great many citizens of our Member States visit tourist areas and ski resorts during the Christmas and New Year periods in particular.
I would therefore ask that we organise these elements - acceptance and confidence, a smooth-running changeover and frontloading - so as to increase citizens' confidence in the euro in this phase, and this will entail frontloading and ensuring that adequate information is provided in the euro campaign.
If this comes off, then the changeover will be another chapter in the euro success story.
Mr President, the 1995 changeover plan has proved to be worthwhile.
The rapporteur rightly emphasises the careful preparations leading up to the introduction of the euro, and we must ensure that the euro does indeed enjoy the confidence of the citizens and not just that of the markets, where it is now established.
The first year of the euro' s introduction and life with monetary union is associated, then, with a lack of awareness of the euro on the part of the citizens, that is to say the consumers.
It is not without reason that as yet, only 1% of transfers and 4% of credit card transactions are performed in euros.
This would suggest that we really do need information campaigns.
Not only did we need to have these campaigns in the years before monetary union started, we also need to pursue them now that it is in force, and this is not a task that we should just leave to the European Central Bank.
We, too, in our capacity as European Commission, European Parliament, and governments of the Member States, must launch a new initiative in this respect, so that political discussions on the value of the euro do not cause the citizens to suddenly start thinking that, although they may inhabit a monetary union, this has lent no added value to Europe. Rather, they must be made aware of the fact that they are living in an age of new monetary reform.
This false assumption, which is still very much prevalent because the exchange rate between the euro, the dollar and the yen has, I regret to say, developed rather differently than appeared would be the case on 4 January, must not, however, lead to a situation in which erroneous ideas as to the value of the euro hold sway.
The internal value of the currency is decisive and the fact that we can record values for the euro 11-zone that truly inspire confidence is of historic importance.
It is a good thing that it is becoming clear, and is made transparent time and time again in the monetary dialogue between the European Parliament and the European Central Bank, how important price stability is for this independent, monetary authority; and it is a good thing that the ECB should see that this goal is accomplished in a manner accessible to ordinary citizens.
I believe it would be wrong to break out in a panic now, here in this Chamber, on account of exchange rate trends.
I think the exchange rates are exhausted in any case.
The important thing to do in these circumstances, though, is to support the development of the euro by having more coordination of economic policy within the European Union.
Monetary policy will not be in a position to enhance the credibility of European integration for the benefit of growth, employment and also investment, if the Member States of the European Union do not, coincidentally with the harmonisation and centralisation of monetary policy, join forces more resolutely in giving out signals against tax dumping and social dumping, and in favour of increased employment.
Mr President, the excellent Torres Marques report marks the end of a debate which started 10 months ago.
Fortunately, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament are in agreement about ratifying the timetable for the introduction of the euro agreed at the Madrid European Council of 1995.
This consensus demonstrates that careful management of the various periods is the key to the success of the operation.
Our efforts must be concentrated on ensuring that this transition goes smoothly.
Our role is to protect the interests of the people, particularly those who are disadvantaged.
Respect for the timetable will provide the time needed for the information to reach everyone and may also allow the dual circulation period to be reduced.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs maintains that this period should not exceed two months.
The ECB, the Commission and the national authorities will therefore have to adopt a series of measures, some of which have already been mentioned. For example, they will have to provide consumers, traders and banks with the necessary quantity of coins and notes before 1 January 2002.
They will have to ensure that dual price display is in general use for 1 January 2001.
They will have to use this process to modernise our payment systems and they will have to adopt the necessary measures to ensure adequate legal protection against fraud.
If the euro is to bring greater freedom to individuals and companies and increased rationality in their decision making, they must previously have become familiar with the new system.
In this respect, the recommendations on communication and information policies contained in the Torres Marques report have a vital role to play. However, we should not imagine that the euro will perfect the single market or that it will allow, for example, easier price comparison or a reduction in transaction costs.
The benefits of the euro must be more than just material for they must help to strengthen the political union.
Mr President, Commissioner, the most important step with regard to the future of the euro is the moment European citizens start handling euros physically.
We will try to facilitate the switch to the new currency in terms of cash by allowing the euro and national currencies to exist side by side for a few months.
Parliament also supports frontloading and would, in this way, like to remove the barriers to the swift introduction of the currency.
It now appears that the European Central Bank is also gradually beginning to endorse this aim.
We cannot, however, underestimate how important it is for the citizens of Europe to be prepared for the change.
When Germany reunited, the West German mark was introduced into the former East Germany immediately with no major catastrophe occurring, such as those the big bang sceptics are currently describing with regard to the introduction of the euro.
In many countries, the euro, with few exceptions, could be adopted within a short period of time.
For example, in my country, Finland, the number of coins and notes in relation to GNP is the smallest in Europe.
In addition, the ever-growing number of credit cards in relation to the population is by far the greatest.
For example, I would support the big bang model for Finland.
The big bang would actually only cause problems for cash dispensing machines.
It will not be possible to change all the machines in one night, so the old currency should continue to be used as legal tender at least for some period of time, in cash dispensers at least.
Our citizens must have the real feeling that the euro is of benefit to them, and not something that is going to make life difficult.
At present, there is a dearth of direct practical benefits, since, for example, developments in the euro zone as far as cross-border purchases and currency exchange services are concerned have not been to the satisfaction of the public.
The introduction of the euro must be made easy for the public and consumers. Problems for special groups must be minimised.
Everything possible must be done in remote areas to ease the introduction of the euro.
Supplies of the new currency delivered early on would support these aims. What is essential for the public is not how long dual circulation lasts, but how long the banks will exchange former currencies for euros without charge.
The banks should offer a free currency exchange service for at least six months, even though dual circulation might have ceased.
EMU is not a construction to be ranked with the seven wonders of the world.
Rather, it is in the running for the title of world' s largest folly, for it is designed to give the world' s largest trading block a single currency built upon a foundation which, until the introduction of this currency, it had only been possible to hold in place for a period of five post-war years in Germany.
In every other year, the rate of inflation has been more than 2%.
To make an idol of this rate is not only stupid but also a direct assault upon the many families in which the father or mother is now coming home with a redundancy notice instead of a wage slip.
EMU' s holy cow is worse than the holy cows of India.
The latter do not in the least prevent opportunities from arising to create growth and employment.
The absurdity becomes apparent when Danish economic policy is compared with that pursued in the eleven euro or EMU countries.
Over the last five years, growth in Denmark has been twice as great: 20% instead of 10%, and the rate of unemployment has been halved.
That should be considered good by any ordinary person' s standards but, in EMU, such a policy would be downright illegal; in fact, more than that, unconstitutional, because it was put in place with a Budget deficit of 3.9%. The policy would have incurred a fine of EUR 500-600 million.
Some people say that the policy can be changed when politicians sit together round the table, but that is somewhat non-sensical because the policy may only be altered by amending the treaty itself, the basic law, the Treaties of Maastricht and Amsterdam.
This is where the errors arise from.
The Central Bank may be criticised for raising interest rates instead of reducing unemployment, but it is only doing what the Treaty says it must do. It is the Treaty which should be altered.
The single currency ought at least to be converted into a common currency allowing countries to have their own rates of exchange for the purposes of pursuing economic policies which benefit employment.
In that way, one economic policy or the other might be pursued.
The countries themselves should be allowed to decide which.
Mr President, firstly I must congratulate Mrs Torres Marques on her report and thank everyone who has participated in this debate today.
My presence here reflects the importance which the Commission and I myself, as the Commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, continue to place on the whole process of the introduction of the euro.
As emphasised by several speakers, the introduction of the euro has so far clearly been a great success, despite the debates which we may be having on certain specific points.
It is also clear, again as highlighted throughout this debate, that the moment of truth will be when the coins and notes enter into circulation on 1 January 2002.
I must comment on the practical problems which are bound to arise, as indicated in the report.
If we had to describe what is to happen, we would not use the terms 'big bang' or 'dual circulation' .
The proposed shortening of the periods is actually intended to ensure a rapid introduction of coins and notes and perhaps this is the new description which we should be using.
Yet this rapid introduction cannot occur overnight.
There can be no big bang, but neither are we talking about a long period of dual circulation.
We are therefore concerned with the minimum time needed so that the introduction is rapid. This is positive.
This clearly leads to the second problem of frontloading.
This has been debated, as you well know, by both the European Central Bank and ECOFIN.
The latter has already discussed frontloading with coins but frontloading with notes, outside the financial system, poses legal and practical difficulties.
However, these difficulties, particularly where linked to the type of coin or note currently being supplied by cash dispensers, could be solved.
We are therefore facing some specific problems which have been mentioned.
What will happen in the period at the end of 2001 and the beginning of 2002 when many people will be travelling around Europe?
How will we solve this problem?
This is clearly a specific point which must be carefully considered and for which an answer must be sought.
We cannot ask travellers using their national currency to change this in a place which is not their country of origin as this would cause practical problems of all kinds.
With regard to the problem of dual price display, I agree with the idea that we should set a date from which the dual display of prices is absolutely compulsory. This is the only way to start making any comparison.
However, we are all aware that only in the last months of 2001 will people really start to make comparisons. In my opinion, the price difference will involve such a substantial change that the references to the old prices will quickly disappear.
We will all have to adapt to the new prices.
The report raises one particularly important point on the problem of the communication policy and the people who will find it more difficult to adapt to the new situation.
Some speakers have also referred to the need to continue this communication policy with which I totally agree.
The Commission is currently preparing a new plan of action on the communication policy. This plan will, of course, involve this House.
We believe that this operation must be carried out by all the institutions involved in the process, and particularly the European Parliament, as the institution most directly in contact with the people.
We have already discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs but I will repeat my offer that I am prepared to start examining how to resolve most effectively the communication problems arising between everyone.
We will have to include in this plan the people who will have more difficulty in gaining an adequate understanding of the new currency.
These will be the people who, for one reason or another, will have certain specific problems.
The electronic money issue will not cause any particular difficulties.
However, one interesting point to be stressed is the problem of payment systems, particularly in retail operations.
The payment system for major transactions has worked very well but we all agree that the problem of the excessive charges currently imposed on money-changing is generating ill feeling. This is because we expected a reduction in the costs of money-changing during this period and these expectations have not been borne out.
The priority is to set up compensation systems or payment systems allowing us to reduce these costs.
Initiatives have already been taken in this respect which the Commission supports.
However, we have to achieve a system which prevents these costs from being as high as they are at the moment and we must therefore set up common standards allowing us to deal with any difficulties which may arise.
Thank you for this report.
It is an important element in the whole process of the introduction of the euro and I hope to carry on discussing this issue with you as we have done to date.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
Fisheries
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
A5-0067/1999 by Mrs Fraga Estévez, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products (COM(99) 55 - C4-0141/1999 - 1999/0047(CNS)).
A5-0025/1999 by Mr Gallagher, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending for the third time Regulation (EC) No 850/98 of 30 March 1998 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms (COM(99) 141 - C4-0224/1999 - 1999/0081(CNS)).
Mr President, the current common organisation of the markets has been showing signs of running out of steam. This is due to its inability to meet the new challenges of a highly globalised and competitive market in fishery products, in a European Union very dependent on imports.
This House has, on many occasions, highlighted this problem and called for substantial changes.
We are now finally debating the Committee on Fisheries' report on a proposal for a regulation which does not just reform the COM but establishes a completely new system.
This is not just any old debate but one which affects one of the four pillars of the Community fisheries policy. It must therefore be as productive and responsible as the debate we had in the Committee on Fisheries because this report, which I ask you to approve, is the result of a hard-won compromise between the political groups and the various sectorial and national interests.
As rapporteur, I believe we should acknowledge that the Commission' s initial proposal significantly improved the current COM.
In particular, it reinforced the fundamental role played by the producers' organisations in the marketing of products. It also granted them increased and improved mechanisms for ensuring correct operation and more responsible fishing and marketing.
However, our committee had to change the text of the proposal on two major aspects.
In both cases this was achieved through the compromises which I have mentioned. The first compromise was reached by including aquaculture products and shellfish gathering for which no marketing aid was provided.
Yet these are both subsectors which, like fishing, must be fully included in a system whose aim is to match supply to demand. They are also developing sectors in which production must be well planned so that crises, such as those which are periodically suffered by salmon producers, can, as far as possible, be avoided from the outset.
The other aspect which we corrected is even more serious, if this is possible.
As I mentioned at the beginning, this type of regulation should be prepared very carefully, particularly when proposing a change from a quota system to a system of indefinite tariff suspension for imports. Yet the Commission acted not just thoughtlessly but even frivolously and irresponsibly.
Please understand that the Committee on Fisheries is not opposed to the system of tariff suspension.
However, we must be certain that this system, which actually involves the voluntary removal of tariff duties, will not threaten Community companies which produce and market the same products.
The Commission' s proposal included several products which are produced in the Community on a large scale. This is proven by the study being prepared at the request of the Council because the Commission' s figures lacked justification.
For example, for one of these products - tuna fillets - this study establishes deficit levels of between 1 500 and 3 000 tonnes.
Without considering any comparative information, the Commission was therefore recklessly prepared to stifle a Community sector which provides thousands of jobs. This would also have blocked its own systems of aid for the development of GSP-Drug and ACP countries just because of an actual import requirement of less than 3 000 tonnes which can be completely covered by the current system of tariff quotas.
Although the compromise reached by our committee on this issue was particularly difficult to achieve, the facts seem to justify this. Following the political agreement achieved in the last Council of Ministers, both tuna fillets and herring now fall outside the tariff suspension system, in addition to another set of corrections affecting other products contained in Annex V.
I therefore feel that the Commission' s proposal was not well prepared. In fact, it was dangerous and we are pleased with the Council' s correction which matches ours in making the compensation for withdrawals more flexible.
With these two major changes incorporated in committee, together with others such as greater precision in labelling and information to consumers, this House is helping to prevent a text which has its good points from being ineffective due to its lack of realism. I therefore ask you all to approve this report.
It only remains for me to thank all the Members who helped to achieve this compromise for their hard work and assistance. I ask you again to approve this report.
Thanks should also go to Mr Gallagher for his excellent report.
Mr President and Commissioner, in introducing this report on the conservation of fishing resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, I can be confident that the proposals are based on sound scientific advice.
As my European Parliament colleagues will know, the Fisheries Committee has been a strong supporter of technical conservation measures based on technical and scientific data.
This is particularly so where efforts are made to cross-reference scientific data with fisheries observations.
Fishermen spend more time at sea than scientists and the sea is their natural environment, which they observe on a daily basis.
They have a better understanding of fish movements and factors affecting fish stocks than people give them credit for, quite simply because it is essential for their livelihood.
The House will recall the positive opinion on the substance of the measures and resolution of 25 October 1996, the Gallagher report, and its opinion of 26 April 1998 on the implementation of technical measures in the common fisheries policy.
On 30 March 1998, the Council of Ministers adopted Regulation 850/98 for the conservation of fishing resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles.
This regulation replaced 894/97 with the exception of Articles 11, 19 and 20 which related to driftnets and which were dealt with separately.
After the adoption and publication of this regulation, data brought to the attention of the Commission necessitated its incorporation into this regulation.
The regulation of 13 March 1998 is due to come into effect on 1 January next year.
However, it is imperative that the additional data and developments which have come too late be incorporated in this regulation and ensure that it is part of the regulation coming into force on 1 January.
The present proposal for a Council regulation provides for changes to the area and timing of restrictions designed to protect the spawning of the Douglas Bank herring in the Irish Sea.
In view of the current healthy state of herring stocks, the proposal changes allow for a reduction in both the area and the time period of fishing restrictions.
This will increase fishing opportunities while, at the same time, protecting the stocks and ensure that there is no repeat of the collapse of the stocks which we recall in 1970.
I am pleased to note that the scientific, technical and economic committee have supported the proposal, having examined the report of the advisory committee of fisheries management during its November 1999 session, in addition to the specific provisions on the use of Danish seine nets in the plaice box.
This merely corrects an oversight in the original text.
The conditions agreed within the international dolphin conservation programme for the use of purse seines which commonly will apply provisionally within the Community incorporate into this regulation a revision of mesh size for two species of spotted dogfish.
Technical conservation measures will play an important role in the conservation of stocks by protecting juvenile fish and will reduce the threat to further yields.
A clear message must go out from this Parliament, from the Commission and from the Council to the fishing industry that honest endeavours will be respected and those fishermen who abide by technical conservation measures that are devised by accredited European scientists in partnership with fishermen will benefit most.
If amendments are necessary in the light of new developments, no doubt the Commission will come back with further proposals and I am quite certain that the Committee and Parliament will respond expeditiously.
I want to thank my colleagues, the officials in committee and the officials in the Commission for their assistance in drawing up this report and I want to congratulate Mrs Fraga Estévez on the presentation of her very comprehensive report.
But I must say that I am disappointed here today that the Council have already decided and that we are debating a report when a decision has been taken.
I must pose the question: are we ordering our business in a correct fashion?
Commissioner Fischler told us we had no co-responsibility, but that our views would be taken into consideration.
How can our views be taken into consideration when we are debating a report which has already been decided on by Council?
I would sincerely hope the Council and the Commission have taken note of our views.
They were obviously monitoring the progress of this report through the committee, and I am pleased that they have rejected a proposal to allow unlimited quantities of herring into the Union, quantities of fresh, chilled and frozen herring at preferable rates of duty.
Now it has been restricted from 2001 to 20 000 tonnes.
It is still too much in view of the fact that the prices of herring in the Community at the moment are at an all-time low. This is because of the overloading of the EU market with low-price fish and frozen herring from Norway and the setting up by German companies of low-cost production units in Poland for processing duty-free Norwegian fish for export to Germany.
We must remember, we have a duty and a responsibility to the Community fishermen and we must ensure that their rights are protected.
Madam President, Mr Gallagher, I am only too pleased to second what you have just had to say about the modus operandi.
Something has to change there.
But first I have something to tell you on a more cheery note.
Yesterday, following the trialogue between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, I was reassured in the Committee on Budgets that the financing for the important fisheries agreement with Morocco was secured at second reading.
We have taken a significant step forward and a sound foundation has been laid for the forthcoming negotiations.
It was possible to discern the beginnings of a change of direction in the debate in the Committee on Fisheries on the report by Carmen Fraga, and this change will take hold in the new year.
The joint struggle has forged bonds between us within the Committee, both on general and more specific issues.
It was, and continues to be, about supplying the European market with fish and about targeted production for export so as to preserve direct and indirect jobs at sea and on land.
We are a Community based on solidarity and it should stay that way.
Now there is a new Parliament and a new Commission with many new personalities and new emphases.
The market situation in general, not just in relation to the WTO negotiations, and the different understanding new personalities have of traditional practices, also bring about changes in the issues dealt with in committee, both in respect of content and the weight they are given.
In future, therefore, we must also examine other viewpoints more closely.
The rapporteur has presented a very well thought-out report. It received a majority vote.
However, the outcome failed to satisfy several Members, which means that discussions in committee will now become livelier. The Committee on Budgets has long been asking for this.
At the same time, no one wants to give up the solidarity we have with an endangered but important economic and policy arm of the EU.
Solidarity cannot, by definition, be called for from one side alone, though.
The unanswered questions on the GMO report are as follows: how many subsidies and customs tariffs does the fisherman need and to what extent can the industry sustain a liberalised, global trading zone?
To what extent is free competition compatible with fair competition? Grants give way to helping people to help themselves.
But the net must not be closed in so tightly that those concerned no longer have to make any effort at all to maintain their independent position on the market of supply and demand.
Where do we draw the line between private enterprise and planned economy measures?
Questions upon questions.
What is more, the EU budget is tight.
Why is it necessary for financial support to be extended to aquaculture as well?
It is a new market segment in the breeding sector which, in view of efficient management, is able to guarantee greater stability of planning and supply than the fishing industry is capable of.
Ought it not to be the fishing industry and its market prospects that attract an increased level of financial support?
It is understandable that the Member States do not say no to receiving EU subsidies for this sector.
As I see it, the upshot is as follows: the Commission's proposal was amended to a considerable extent.
Votes against and abstentions must therefore be respected for the reasons cited earlier.
The discussion on the common organisation of the markets does not end there.
Madam President, I too congratulate Mr Gallagher on his excellent work.
We have spent two years extensively discussing the Community fisheries market. It is now finally the turn of the whole House to adopt a stance through this report which was approved by a large majority in the Committee on Fisheries.
Our market has a deficit of fishery products.
Some 60% of the fishery products consumed in Europe are imported.
The Community fisheries sector is extraordinarily active and competitive and plays an important role in maintaining economic and social cohesion in Europe.
Our duty is therefore to ensure and guarantee its future.
The European market is not a closed market.
It is open in that products from GSP countries enter free of tariffs or at low tariffs.
We make strict demands on our fishermen in terms of gear, conservation and handling of catches which are not compulsory for foreign fleets.
For us as Socialists, the Community preference is therefore our commitment to the Community fisheries sector, to our people, fishermen, fishing industry workers and shipowners who hope to be able to continue their activities and keep their jobs.
We should not therefore, as proposed by the Commission, replace the current and flexible tariff quota system with the total or partial suspension of tariff duties.
We oppose this removal of tariffs because we believe that we do not need to protect, as Mrs Langenhagen said, but at least defend a competitive and modern sector which is still not prepared for total liberalisation. The same is true of many other sectors.
Many questions continue to concern us. These include the cut in financing which excludes important growth sectors such as aquaculture, the lack of definition of the information to be received by the consumer, as specifically mentioned by Mrs Fraga Estévez, with regard to the distribution of areas proposed by the Commission, and the lack of other relevant data such as minimum sizes.
As Socialists, our priorities include consumer protection. The defence of quality is one way of protecting these rights.
We therefore want to encourage measures which emphasise quality fishery products and, at the same time, we ask for sustainable management of resources to ensure the future of fishing.
Fishing must be allowed, but in accordance with the requirements of the market and the respectful management of the product.
To sum up, we Socialists want to defend European producers, consumers and importers and we believe that with the report approved by the Committee on Fisheries, with the excellent work carried out by Mrs Fraga Estévez - who I congratulate - and with the agreement reached by the Council of Ministers, we can, in the main, be satisfied.
Mr President, our group very much welcomes the proposal on the common organisation of the market in fisheries, because it will improve information to consumers.
It will strengthen producer organisations giving them incentives to better resource management and it will introduce greater stability into the supply of fish for processing.
We also consider that there are many respects in which the report introduces major improvements to the original proposal, and we congratulate Mrs Fraga accordingly.
There are, however, some areas in which we continue to have doubts.
First, there are various articles, notably 11(2), where we believe that the original Commission proposals provide greater security against over-fishing than do the amendments in the report.
Second, we take the view that guide prices should be fixed by reference to national ports rather than to representative ports simply because the latter idea is too lacking in specification.
Third, a number of us consider that the additional costs involved do not warrant extension of some of the measures to aquaculture, though I would add this is not my own view.
Aquaculture is of such major importance to Scotland where many fragile local economies depend upon it.
Finally, we have very mixed feelings about Article 28 and the amendment to it.
On the one hand, we fear that the amendment might delay implementation, and we also have certain concerns about its precise content.
On the other hand, we accept that there should be a rational basis for tariff suspension rather than it resulting simply from a shopping list provided by Member States.
We look to the Commission to provide such a rational basis.
All in all, we believe that the measures being undertaken fit well with the projected regionalisation of the common fisheries policy to which we are firmly committed, and we hope that proposals to this end will be put before Parliament soon.
Madam President, I am delighted to be making my maiden speech today in this House, as I am a new Member of Parliament, and I am happy to do so with regard to fisheries and the excellent report by Mrs Fraga Estévez, because I am the mayor of Mèze, in the French department of Hérault, in the south of France, which is a small town, one of the main Mediterranean coastal fishing ports, near Sète, which is the principal fishing port.
I should tell you that since yesterday and again today, all the fishing ports along the Mediterranean coast have been on strike because the fishermen are protesting against the price of diesel oil and the collapse in the prices of bluefish, tuna, sardines and also eels that are not sold any more.
A real market problem exists and it is the whole of this profession that is being ruined.
And they are protesting against the European directives that they find too restrictive.
In the context of discussions like these, we need to show our support for the fishing trade.
I will raise three points with regard to Mrs Fraga Estévez' s excellent report: firstly, traceability.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of detailed labelling on the products, from first sale to the last, so that people know where the product has been caught, how and also whether it is a product of fishing or aquaculture.
We wish to go even further than the proposals made by the Commission.
Secondly, on the questions relating to withdrawal and destruction, a reference price, a guide price, is fixed and subsidies are granted when the fishery products are not sold.
Subsidies are also granted to conserve and store products.
Our group is in favour of this when it is a matter of conserving products and not wasting them, but if it is a matter of increasing the amount of fishing undertaken only to then destroy the fish, we are not in favour.
We believe that the producers' organisations should be made aware so that the fisheries plan is well established throughout the year and so that intensive fishing is not favoured only to subsequently destroy the fish.
It is very important and perhaps requires an increase in the reference price and, in the end, a whole procedure, but we should like the resource to be well managed.
Finally, I will conclude by saying that as far as the customs duties are concerned, we are not in favour of these duties being systematically abolished.
An impact study should be undertaken, as Mrs Fraga Estévez proposes, and objective criteria should be established before deciding which customs duties will be abolished.
Our group supports Mrs Fraga Estévez' s report and Mr Gallagher' s report.
Madam President, the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products is one of the most important elements of the common fisheries policy.
I hope, even with the commitments made by the Council, that the latter takes due regard of the results of the debate and the Fraga Estévez report in particular.
With regard to the contents of the report, I must congratulate Mrs Fraga Estévez.
As usual, she has worked very hard and I particularly want to acknowledge the effort made to achieve compromises.
As is to be expected, compromises do not satisfy everyone and this case is no exception.
I am unhappy with one aspect of the report in that it proposes an extension of the limits set by the Commission for fishery withdrawals.
Faced with increasingly scarce fish stocks, it seems absurd to fish to destruction and immoral to waste quality protein.
This reflects one of the shortcomings of the Commission' s proposal which should have supplemented the COM framework with a mechanism to maintain the income of fishery workers. This would allow the effect of price falls to be limited and would therefore make recourse to the withdrawal and destruction of fishery products unnecessary.
The Commission' s proposal lacks maturity and is dominated by inertia.
There is inertia towards budget restrictions and in the regulation of foreign trade.
This opportunity could have been used to establish a clear and transparent system of foreign trade regulation.
For these reasons, I feel that the Fraga Estévez report is much more useful and my group therefore totally supports not only its efforts but, despite the reticence indicated in my speech, the compromise as a whole.
Finally, we will also support the report by Mr Gallagher who I also congratulate.
Madam President, the new proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the markets in the fisheries and aquaculture sector puts forward new and interesting aspects that need to be thoroughly considered, which I cannot, unfortunately, discuss in this forum.
Being the representative of the largest island in the Mediterranean - Sicily - and head of the province of Catania, where large numbers of people work in the fishing industry, I would have been in a good position to talk about day-to-day experiences.
Today though, I would like to make some constructive criticisms, which I hope can contribute to improving the proposal for a regulation in question.
As far as consumer information is concerned, I fully agree with the Commission when it proposes compulsory labelling indicating the designation of the species, the production method as well as the catch area.
Nevertheless, with the aim of making consumers more responsible and making the market more transparent, other details should be included, for example, the minimum legal size, which would allow fishery resources to be respected.
As far as producers' organisations are concerned, it is true that we need to make them more responsible, as regards both the organisation of the market and the efficient management of resources; however, it would be appropriate - and in this respect I stress the relevance of Amendment No 67, tabled by my political group - for the Member States to be able to grant additional aid to producers' organisations that develop measures which valorise the species caught and measures to adapt supply to demand through structural actions of the FIFG.
In view of the fact that - and it has been reaffirmed here this morning - according to data provided by the Commission, 60% of fishery products consumed in the European Union are imported, we should support aquaculture, which constitutes a major economic opportunity for maritime communities, in a substantial and comprehensive manner.
Often, people do not enter this sector due to a lack of knowledge.
Finally, I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Fraga Estévez for upholding the amendments tabled by the UEN Group in the Committee on Fisheries.
Madam President, Commissioner, I firstly want to congratulate both rapporteurs of the Committee on Fisheries for their reports which are before us today.
The Gallagher report concerns a technical amendment to the ever sensitive protection of juveniles which we always support in our committee.
I must highlight the consideration and receptiveness of our rapporteur with regard to the request to the Commission for further information. The delay in this vote on his report was caused by the Commission not having dealt with his request for the most recent scientific reports to assess the coverage of the geographical area delimited in the Douglas Bank Box and the redefinition of the conditions and their scope.
As Mrs Fraga Estévez had also asked for this information, I hope that this has allowed us to completely fulfil the role, reserved specifically for our Committee on Fisheries, of minutely scrutinising the activity of the European Commission and the application of the corresponding scientific reports by the Community institutions.
With regard to the Fraga Estévez report, this concerns a fundamental issue and a pillar of the common fisheries policy, namely the common organisation of the markets. As this clearly covers all fishing activity, this is why this magnificent report has taken some time in its progress through this House and its final adoption in our committee on the twenty-second of last month.
The final result is an excellent report. Many of its important sections were the subject of a consensus due to compromise amendments made by the rapporteur which substantially alter key aspects of the Commission' s proposal.
The removal of Article 5, which was the Commission' s attempt to create new tariff suspensions on products as sensitive as tuna fillets, the request to create reference laboratories, the inclusion of aquaculture, the improvement of the regulation of consumer information on the labels of fishery products, the percentages of the compensatory allowances for tuna and the increased flexibility of withdrawals are, to mention just a few examples, very important improvements introduced in this report. I must therefore congratulate the rapporteur once again.
We must also congratulate ourselves on the development and achievement of this report which lends prestige to the role of the Committee on Fisheries as well as this House.
Madam President, it is as the Commission says in its explanatory statement.
This proposal on the common organisation of the markets in fisheries and aquaculture products is of central importance for the common fisheries policy in the European Union.
If we take a look at the general aims in the explanatory statement of the proposal, then we will see that we can give these our full and unequivocal support. Responsible stock management, improving the competitiveness of the sector, liberalisation of the market etc.
I am completely in favour of all these statements. What does give cause for concern though is the question as to which methods the Commission, and in particular the rapporteur, intend to employ in their efforts to maintain these principles.
I would like to comment just on three points.
Firstly, I consider that, in future, one issue to be addressed will be that of establishing extensive, direct grants for the fisheries sector, as previous regulations failed to do.
Now, of course, no one has anything against grants.
But still the question must be asked as to whether this approach will, in the long term, achieve the goal of boosting the competitiveness of the sector.
Even when a deadline is proposed, this always has certain consequences and so we should not rule out maintaining this state of affairs indefinitely.
In my view, we could look to the structural funds policy for a more suitable option.
Secondly, I wholeheartedly endorse the efforts being made to adapt the regime governing trade with third countries.
The only question in this respect is whether they actually go far enough.
After all, the fact of the matter is that we in the EU are highly dependent on imports.
To a certain extent, the fish processing industry is dependent on tariff reduction and suspension arrangements for its survival.
Thirdly, I am unable to support the rapporteur in her desire to include aquaculture products in the intervention regime.
Notwithstanding all the efforts made on the part of the rapporteur, who has, as always, produced a thorough piece of work in order to improve the Commission' s proposal - and I have a great deal of respect for that - I am only able to lend my support to some of her conclusions.
Madam President, as the rapporteur, Carmen Fraga Estévez, has said, the introduction of the proposal for a new Council regulation establishing the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products is taking place at a time when the European Union countries together constitute one of the largest markets for fishery products in the world.
As there is a shortfall in our internal supply, we import 60% of the products we consume.
In this context, the regulation of the supply and demand for fishery products must respond to a dual consideration: it must meet consumers' needs and safeguard the development of the fisheries sector itself.
As we all know, the fisheries sector, which is concentrated in certain countries such as mine, is one of the major contributors to economic activity.
The report by Mrs Fraga Estévez responds adequately to this dual consideration and deserves the support of this House.
In any event, it will certainly have ours.
The regulation would doubtless improve if her thoughts and criticisms concerning the limited budget allocated to the regulation and the exclusion from the common organisation of the markets of almost all of our aquaculture, amongst other things, were taken into account. It will also improve if her partial criticism of the standards relating to consumer information and to its defence of tariff suspensions when there is Community production, is heeded.
We also ask for your support for the report by Mr Pat Gallagher.
Madam President, the Commission' s proposal for a new COM for fishery and aquaculture products does not meet the needs and specific requirements of the sector in the various Member States. Nor does it take account of the potential that still exists, which is all the more incomprehensible, as the Commission itself admits that the European Union imports 60% of its consumption of fishery products.
There is, of course, an obvious lack of ambition which is quite visible in the proposed budgetary reduction that has been proposed: with less than EUR 20 million per year, we cannot expect the fisheries sector in the European Union to be able to develop.
Furthermore, this COM does not guarantee fishermen' s incomes, nor does it take into account the fact that in some countries such as Portugal, where small-scale coastal fishing, which supplies consumers with fresh fish caught in their own waters, predominates, producers' organisations are very weak, which means that they cannot be given such heavy responsibilities without considering the necessary financial resources.
Finally, as the report by Mrs Fraga Estévez states, it is not acceptable to change the system that has been laid down for exchanges with third countries because of the implications that this may have for European production.
Madam President, I want to thank Mr Gallagher for his report and to say that I agree completely with him when he makes the point that we have to accept the scientific information that is provided to us, and that it is on the basis of scientific information rather than political expediency that we must make decisions relating to conservation.
We should remember that we have evidence to suggest that if conservation measures are properly carried out and control is exercised we can increase the take for European fishermen by something like EUR 5,000 million worth of product a year.
At least that would go some distance to compensate fishermen for the loss and fishing areas for the loss of jobs they have experienced.
I want to thank Carmen Fraga for her report: a very comprehensive statement and advice to the Commission and Council on the whole business of marketing.
One of the extraordinary things about fish is that while fisherman have been finding it difficult and jobs have been reduced, the price of fish, almost alone as a food product, has been increasing continually over the years to the consumer in Europe.
At the same time, margins have been squeezed for fishermen.
So, we have to recognise that in the whole area of marketing and processing, there is an important job to be done.
I do not think that the annual allocation is sufficient to undertake that task.
Fishing is very different from other occupations.
Nobody produces fish.
The fish are there.
They are a public resource.
Why should we over-fish and at the same time contribute to withdrawals from the market?
Why should we over-fish and, at the same time, import a product which creates a price that is unacceptable?
The herring sector referred to by Mr Gallagher is worthy of special consideration at the moment.
Herring is being sold at 20% lower prices than last year.
It is about or less than 20% of the price that we consider the minimum price for beef in the European Union; a high-value product, immensely valuable for health and normal maintenance of human life.
Why should such a product be taken out of the seas and then given away?
It is a mistake for the Commission to propose that they should readjust the regulation to further exacerbate that particular problem.
Madam President, we voted in committee on the reform of the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products.
It is a sensitive subject, but this report was especially necessary.
The text on which we voted is a good text and we arrived at a good compromise.
I believe that it is a compromise of the kind that the European Union is capable of achieving when it is able to both transcend national interests and defend the common interests.
We know that the fisheries policy is one of the great European policies, even if it concerns very few Europeans, at least as producers, though many more obviously as consumers.
Since it was established in 1970, the Community fisheries market has changed a great deal.
Its regulation has adapted to this and this report must be defined as an additional stage in building a balanced organisation between the protection and the management of fishing resources.
Today, the report submitted to us strengthens the place of the consumer and the producers' organisations in the organisation of the market.
Let us not forget, however, that this reform will have consequences for the fisheries sector.
I shall refer to two of them briefly.
Where will our auctions fit into all this, in view of the pre-sale contracts included under Article 12?
This development should not involve a kind of 'shift' of our territories.
Secondly, what will happen in the event of an economic crisis in the fisheries sector, if no provisions for exceptional circumstances are adopted?
It would be better to make provision for all possible scenarios.
This report does not deal with the questions of the future, or at least with some of them, but I believe that our committee has done a good job and your report, Mrs Fraga Estévez, deserves considerable support.
I welcome and fully support Mr Gallagher's report: another good job done by that rapporteur.
In general terms, I welcome the thrust of Mrs Fraga's paper which should help to encourage market stability.
This use of forward-looking methods of adaptation of supply and demand by producer organisations should be of great assistance to the overall competitiveness and efficiency of the fishery sector as a whole.
The recognition of the importance of the processing sector is also welcome.
This is a sector which generates very significant employment and income, very often within otherwise fragile communities.
Stressing the importance of basing decisions on scientific and technical data and studies is fundamental, not just concerning the COM in fisheries, but also in general fisheries management.
Moreover, the fact that the proposal will bring improved transparency and knowledge of the market and products, especially for the consumer, is a positive move.
I also support the committee's amendments which seek to include aquaculture within the support mechanism.
The recent and on-going crises in the Scottish salmon industry as a result of the infectious salmon anaemia virus demonstrates more than amply that the aquaculture sector can also be volatile and unpredictable.
Therefore, careful planning and support is vital.
Madame President, can I congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mr Gallagher on the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, and Mrs Fraga on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and acquacultural products.
Both reports are generally worthy of support, and with Mr Gallagher' s report I have no fundamental problems.
On Mrs Fraga' s report, although I welcome the general thrust of the report, there are a couple of problems.
We welcome the common organisation of the markets and strengthening of the producer organisations, but I have problems firstly where there is a danger that costs are being pushed up unnecessarily and while we recognise that the level of intervention age needs increasing, maybe not in the way it is actually put here.
With regard to tariff suspensions, we believe the criteria are rather over-strict, and we would like a more liberal system.
We want to ensure that we can benefit the processing industry without affecting producers.
With respect to herring, we agree that the tariff suspension should be turned into an annual quota, and we accept the recommendations for cod, Alaska pollack and shrimp.
In terms of the amendments, we will certainly be opposing Amendment No 47 and I have to express some reservations on Amendments Nos 35 and 41, which we may be unable to support.

The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
(The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. while awaiting voting time and resumed at 11.05 a.m.)
Vote
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0085/1999) drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Decision amending Decision No 210/97/EC adopting an action programme for customs in the Community (Customs 2000) and repealing Council Decision 91/341/EEC (9601/1/1999 - C5-0183/1999 -1998/0314(COD))
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Report (A5-0074/1999) by Mr Pronk, on behalf of Parliament' s Delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text, approved by the Conciliation Committee, for a European Parliament and Council directive on minimum requirements for improving the safety and health protection of workers potentially at risk from explosive atmospheres (Fifteenth individual Directive within the meaning of Article 16(1) of Directive 89/391/EEC (C5-0221/1999 - 1995/0235(COD))
(Parliament approved the joint text)
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0064/1999) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a scheme to monitor the average specific emissions of CO2 from new passenger cars (5621/2/1999rev2 - C5-0041/1999 - 1998/0202(COD)) (rapporteur: Ms González Álvarez)
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Report (A5-0071/1999) by Mr Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation regarding the implementation of measures to promote economic and social development in Turkey (COM(1998) 600 - C4-0670/1998 - 1998/0300(COD))
Marset Campos (GUE/NGL).
(ES) Mr President, while welcoming this regulation, our group has a proposal to make regarding these two reports by Mr Morillon which are about to be put to the vote. This proposal arises from the importance which the Helsinki Summit will assume with regard to the consideration of Turkey as a candidate country.
While issues like the death penalty, in particular that imposed on the Kurdish leader, Mr Öçalan, are still pending, I would request the referral back to committee of both reports so that the Turkish Government can give a positive signal to the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, I followed the debates yesterday very attentively and the unanimous praise of the content and form of this report slightly worried me, as it is impossible, whatever the qualities of any compromise, to please everyone.
Today, as a last resort, it has been proposed that we reject the implementation of these two texts for two reasons that were put forward yesterday in the debates.
The first is that the European Union has not been recompensed for its efforts and that we certainly cannot hope for anything from the Turkish Government on account of the fact that since the implementation of the Customs Union agreements, no real progress has been made, according to some of our colleagues.
I will say to this House that in this agreement on Customs Union, it is the European Union that has been, by a long chalk, the beneficiary of the commitments entered into, since the balance of trade between the European Union and Turkey has doubled in favour of the European Union since the implementation of these agreements.
The second reason is the confirmation of the fact that Mr Öçalan has been condemned to death by the Turkish Supreme Court of Appeal and the fact that some of our colleagues now fear for Mr Öçalan' s life.
I would comment that there has been a de facto moratorium on the death penalty in Turkey for fifteen years and that the aim of the report we are voting on is precisely to urge the Turkish Government to change this de facto moratorium into a de jure moratorium and that, in any case, I wonder what our colleagues' reaction would be if, in their own country of origin, there was, as they desire, interference by the political power in the judiciary, since Mr Öçalan' s case is currently before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
So, for all these reasons, I would say that if you want to hang your dog you give him a bad name first, and I would therefore ask the House not to take account of this request for a referral.
Mr President, I should like to advocate that we defer the decision concerning this proposal.
Unlike the rapporteur, I do not think that this agreement should depend upon whether or not we ourselves stand to gain from such an agreement but upon whether human rights and democracy in Turkey will benefit from it.
That must be the crucial point for us.
Since we began to discuss these matters, the Turkish Parliament has confirmed its death sentence on Mr Öçalan.
We oppose the death penalty on principle.
We think that abolishing the death penalty is fundamental to safeguarding human rights.
I would therefore recommend that we defer the discussion of this point until such time as the Turkish Parliament has shown that it is willing to respect basic human rights in Turkey.
Mr President, in the past, this House has spoken out quite frequently and in no uncertain terms against the death penalty, be it in relation to Mr Öçalan or other individuals.
The death penalty should be abolished, and that goes for Turkey too!
This House has expressed its support for more human rights, for respect for the rights of minority groups, for improved relations between Turkey and Greece and for a resolution of the Cyprus question.
None of that is on the agenda today.
There is a predominant and overwhelming majority in this House.
Two specific reports are on the agenda today concerning the promises and pledges we have made to Turkey and, in particular, concerning the fact that those who incline towards the West, those of European outlook in Turkey, are gaining in strength.
I am therefore in favour of these reports being dealt with.
However, this has no bearing on the heavy criticism we will continue to levy at Turkey and its human rights record!
This is a point of order, specifically to protest at the President for not giving me the floor when I requested it, when I was the only Member to announce yesterday that they would be proposing this request for referral.
I would now like to express my satisfaction with it because it is obvious that the European Parliament must give a very clear signal that it will defend the values in which it believes, particularly to a country which is not just any country, but one that has embarked on the process of accession to the European Union.
(Parliament rejected the request for referral back to committee)
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Report (A5-0065/1999) by Ms Breyer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive relating to limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air (COM(1998) 591 - C4-0135/1999 - 1998/0333(COD))
(Parliament approved the legislative resolution)
Report (A5-0070/1999) by Mr Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation regarding the implementation of measures to intensify the EC-Turkey Customs Union (COM(98) 600 - C4-0669/98 - 1998/0299(CNS))
(Parliament approved the legislative resolution)
Welcome
It is my great pleasure to welcome to the official gallery, the delegation from the Moroccan Parliament led by the President of the Council of the Moroccan Parliament, Mr Jalal Essaïd.
(Loud applause)
Vote (continuation)
- (FR) Despite its very limited nature and the fact that it is clearly inadequate with regard to the problem, we shall vote in favour of the directive on "minimum requirements for improving the safety and health protection of workers potentially at risk from explosive atmospheres" , inasmuch as it could represent progress in countries where workers are least protected.
However, in view of the fact that there is no provision either for real control - that is to say, carried out by the at risk workers themselves and more widely, by the population - or a sanction against employers guilty of negligence, the directive is likely to go unheeded.
The resolution, however, while claiming to place the safety and health of workers above considerations of a purely economic nature in Article 3, contradicts itself in Article 2 by refusing to impose constraints that would thwart the creation and development of small and medium-sized undertakings.
It will therefore remain up to the workers themselves to impose this minimum protection to which they should be entitled and which the directive does not even pretend to impose.
Morillon report (A5-0070/1999 and A5-0071/1999)
- (FR) Turkey' s application for membership of the European Union will probably be on the agenda of the next European Council meeting in Helsinki.
There is a strong movement developing, particularly in France, for Turkey to be recognised as having candidate country status on an equal footing with the other applicant countries for enlargement.
I should like to draw your attention to the risk of finding ourselves in the same situation as with the Customs Union.
According to those promoting it, the Customs Union between the European Union and Turkey should favour democratic reforms, human rights and the rights of minorities.
Against the opinion of our Group and many human rights associations such as "France Liberté" , which is chaired by Danielle Mitterrand, the Customs Union has been ratified and implemented.
Today we are discussing dealing with it in greater depth.
We have no choice but to note that human rights violations have continued.
The problem of the Kurds has still not been resolved.
The fact that Öçalan has been condemned to death has been confirmed.
Leyla Zana is still in prison.
The European Commission itself has been obliged to acknowledge that since the implementation of Customs Union, no significant progress has been made in Turkey in the field of human rights and democratic reform.
Let us learn from the experience of the Customs Union.
Encouraging Turkey' s "attachment to Europe" , as Jacques Chirac put it in Istanbul on 18 November, by recognising Turkey as a candidate country will be taken by the Turkish authorities as encouragement to continue the same policy.
I do not propose to rule out Turkey' s application to join the European Union for good, but we must first require of Turkey firm and definitive commitments and check that they are observed: the recognition of the rights of the Kurdish people, the abolition of the death penalty and a new judgement for Öçalan, the release of Leyla Zana and of all political prisoners and the application of United Nations resolutions to resolve the Cyprus problem.
The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy takes care to refer to the matter of human rights, but, after having amended the Commission proposal, it comes out in favour of continuing and increasing the Customs Union with Turkey.
I cannot approve this step because it is time to send a clear signal to Turkey by blocking or suspending the implementation of the Customs Union.
- (FR) We shall not vote in favour of the resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy as, despite the convoluted wording, the claimed concerns about human rights ill conceal purely mercenary interests.
Moreover, the rapporteur himself emphasises the fact that the balance of trade is increasingly in favour of the European Union.
The reason for our refusal to vote in favour of the resolution is to protest both against the conditions that the workers of this country have to endure, against the oppression of the Kurdish people and against the failure of the Turkish State to respect basic freedoms.
Having said that, it is not only in Turkey that the rights of workers and basic freedoms are trampled underfoot.
In no way do we consider membership of the European Union as an honour that a State should deserve, or indeed a guarantee of democracy.
Also, if the incorporation of Turkey into the European Union meets the requirements of the large industrial and commercial groups, which are European primarily and Turkish only as a secondary consideration, it will in no way improve the fate of the working classes in this country, any more than the European Union has protected workers in the countries already integrated from unemployment and the deterioration of their living conditions.
- (FR) This discussion is the opportunity for us to express our solidarity with the Turkish and Kurdish workers and people.
It is up to them to decide whether or not they join the European Union and if they decide to do so, it is not up to us to oppose their membership.
However, that will not stop us continuing to condemn the repression of this regime, which was inherited from the military dictatorship in 1980 and which today threatens to execute Öçalan and refuses to allow the Kurdish people self-determination.
Before they start preaching about democracy, European governments should set an example and begin by granting voting rights to three million Turkish and Kurdish immigrant workers who live in EU countries.
This is the same EU, which exploits Turkey via the Customs Union without financial compensation.
The aid must benefit the destitute populations in Turkey.
In order to achieve this, the priority must not be economic or customs relations, but relations between the ordinary people and organisations in Turkey and those of other European countries.
It is for these reasons that I shall abstain on the report on economic and social development and I shall vote against the report on EC/Turkey Customs Union.
Breyer report (A5-0065/1999)
.
(DA) Air pollution as a result of discharges of dangerous materials into the atmosphere is a cross-frontier environmental problem which has a drastic effect upon public health.
It is therefore gratifying that the Commission has taken the initiative to prepare a draft directive concerning limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide.
It is, however, tremendously important that the proposal also deals with the requirement to provide the public with information about air quality, published on the basis of a very careful monitoring of benzene and carbon monoxide levels.
I also welcome the fact that, in its report, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tightened up its demand for absolutely comprehensible and easily accessible data so that the public is kept informed at all times about air quality and any pollution problems stemming from dangerous emissions.
Sjöstedt report (A5-0044/1999)
I abstained on this resolution, and I have two points of particular reservation.
The issue of the Euro-bond market is of general concern to all people in Europe; it is not just a London issue.
It is certainly one with which we have concerns in Scotland and I was disappointed in the way that vote turned out.
Last night, in the debate, I referred to remarks made yesterday by the Secretary-General of NATO.
I would like again to draw attention to the fact that he deliberately engaged in party-political debate within the United Kingdom, particularly in relation to Scotland.
In doing that, he appears to me to have misrepresented both the position of Ireland as confirmed by Minister Andrews in this morning' s Irish Times and the position of my own party in this argument in the United Kingdom.
Senior civil servants of international bodies ought not to engage in that kind of party-political dialogue.
On that account, I was very disappointed with the remarks about NATO here.
- (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution concerning the preparations for the European Council meeting in Helsinki on 10-11 December 1999, because we are generally in agreement with the motion' s recommendations concerning the important themes relating to employment, the environment, enlargement of the European Union etc. which are on the agenda.
This explanation of vote does not, however, alter the attitude we expressed earlier regarding the European Parliament' s discussion of the report from Messrs Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen concerning the preparations for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
We remain of the view that Heads of State and Government should first and foremost be setting a realistic agenda which will make it possible to conclude the Intergovernmental Conference before the end of the year 2000 in such a way that the Treaties do not present obstacles to the forthcoming enlargement of the EU.
We are also still of the view that the EU should not be expanded into a proper defence alliance. This ought to remain NATO' s role.
The EU should, on the other hand, play an expanded role in connection with humanitarian tasks.
- (DE) The non-attached Members will endorse the joint resolution in the final vote but would like, at the same time, to point out that the position on the question of reforming the Treaties and on the preparation and holding of the Intergovernmental Conference, which your voting behaviour in respect of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report gave expression to, remains unaltered.
- (SV) I have voted against the resolution, mainly because the European Parliament is again offering its support to a militarisation of the EU.
I had wanted to vote in favour of the original text of the resolution from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance but, unfortunately, that was not possible.
The text reads in terms of emphasising that further development of the CFSP ought primarily to be based upon the principle that conflicts and crises must be prevented and handled by peaceful and civil means, that there should only be recourse to military means as a last resort and that this ought to be adequately supported by a UN or OSCE mandate and not lead to increased defence expenditure.
- (SV) I cannot support the resolution because I do not support the demands for common defence or for a common tax policy.
Torres Marques report (A5-0076/1999)
Mr President, the report by the European Parliament on the length of the transitional period for the introduction of the euro is an opportunity for us to recall some disturbing truths.
Firstly, although there has been a great campaign to promote the euro, particularly at the time when it was launched, although it is now legally in force and it has even experienced some nerve-racking misfortunes on the international markets, people seem to have completely forgotten that it exists.
They continue, in great numbers, to use the national currencies to which they are accustomed and they only use euros very rarely. What is worse, it seems that they are becoming less prepared to use them in the future.
The opinion polls, at least in France, show that the percentage of people who envisage opening an account in euros in the near future has been falling regularly since 1 January 1999 and today only constitutes a small minority.
That really is the last straw, because the closer we get to 31 December 2001, the more this percentage should, on the contrary, be increasing.
Everything seems to show that our fellow citizens do not see any point at all in actually changing to the euro in their daily lives.
However, the European Parliament wishes to disabuse them of this and once again recommends an information campaign which, according to the resolution, should cover both the practical aspects and the basic significance of monetary union.
Well, there we are: once again, reminding those people who think that it serves no purpose how useful the euro actually is.
For my part I am going to ask a controversial question: what if, by chance, our fellow citizens were right?
And what if they really had got to the bottom of it?
And what if the entering of the euro into daily life really did serve no purpose?
Well, the transitional period of three years would have at least had the merit of showing us that we can very easily live, on the one hand, with a euro that is living its own rather chaotic life on the international markets and, on the other hand, with national currencies still in circulation, to the great satisfaction of consumers.
Let us have the good sense to remain in this situation, Mr President, and let us have confidence in the modern means of payment like charge cards or the electronic wallet to make life easier for travellers and those living near borders.
Mr President, I voted against the Torres Marques report with regard to the introduction of the euro because my group, the Dutch Socialist Party, has always campaigned against the introduction of a single currency.
We will remain opposed to it as long as this currency is to the detriment of investment in a sound social policy, sound collective provisions, an active environmental policy and an income policy for the benefit of the lowest income bracket.
The introduction of a single currency is too soon to say the least.
This is why I do not agree with a number of accompanying measures intended to shape and facilitate this introduction.
- (FR) I welcome the report by Mrs Torres Marques with great satisfaction.
She has made a relevant study of the technical difficulties that we still have to resolve in order to prepare properly for the introduction of the euro.
We should not bury our heads in the sand and ignore the problems that are far from being completely resolved and public opinion is far from being ready.
That is why, today, following the example of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council of the European Commission and of our rapporteur, I also believe that the reduction of the three year transitional period could give rise to very considerable technical difficulties that may jeopardise the process of the smooth transition to the euro.
The technical obstacles that would present the greatest difficulties in reducing the transitional period are, in particular: the time limits for manufacturing the notes and coins in euros; the considerable scale of the changes to be made to computer systems and also the fact that the change to the euro for public administrations was planned for 2002 in order to take account of the complexity of the changes to be made in this sector.
Beyond these technical obstacles, making the transitional period shorter would jeopardise one of the strengths of the success of the euro which is the confidence associated with the economic and social factors (whose preparation is still inadequate) around a timetable that is precise and respected.
I even say this myself as someone who was initially in favour of a tighter timetable.
With the same concern for the smooth transition to the euro, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs made a proposal, one that I support, which aims to allow the consumer to start changing his national currency into coins and notes made out in euros from the beginning of December 2001.
In the same way, the supply to the banks of coins and notes should start well before January 2002 and the supply to retailers and public administrations should occur from the beginning of December 2001.
Furthermore, from the second week of January 2002, retail businesses should only give change in euros rather than in the national currency.
I also agree with Mrs Torres Marques when she rejects a legal obligation and only advocates a recommendation in this regard.
As far as the period beginning 1 January 2002 is concerned, where two currencies will be in circulation at the same time, a period which, under the terms of the Treaty could run for up to six months, I share the opinion of the rapporteur and the Economic and Financial Affairs Council that this period should be reduced to two months.
For this, we should step up the active information campaigns for our citizens.
I shall conclude by stressing a problem that is continuing intolerably and which concerns bank charges and exchange charges.
This contributes to creating unease among our citizens as to the actual advantages of the euro.
I have, moreover, warned the Commission and the Council by means of written questions, but I have not received any reply to date.
This is serious at a time when the euro is going through a crisis of confidence.
That concludes the explanations of vote.
Adjournment of the session
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament.
(The sitting closed at 12.25 p.m.)
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 December 1999.
Madam President, I should like briefly to raise one matter which concerns me.
You know that I hold you in high esteem and I also fully supported very many of the points which you made in your speech in Helsinki.
There is one point which could create a misunderstanding.
Twice in your speech you spoke of cultural integration in connection with Turkey's possible membership or candidate status.
Given that this issue is highly sensitive and that a parliamentary delegation has just returned from a short trip to Turkey, I wanted to ask you, Madam President, to clarify this matter, in particular with a view to the fact that official statements have already been made that the European Union is a Christian community.
Did your reference to cultural integration encompass this aspect?
Perhaps you could shed some light on this because I have no desire to move closer to the Islamic religion or culture, nor is it likely that we can demand movement in the opposite direction.
In any event, it would appear that for some of us, at least, this concept of cultural integration in connection with Turkey requires further explanation.
I would be very grateful if you could clarify this.
Thank you, Mr Swoboda.
We are not going to start a debate to explain my speech at Helsinki.
I believe I said exactly what you have just said, i.e. that it was a problem for some parties.
I also said, if you read the text attentively - I hope it has been translated properly - that Parliament was divided on the issue, and that there were several opinions, that discussions had not yet been completed.
If you examine my speech carefully, you will see that I did not permit myself to bring things to a conclusion.
I said, besides, that there may also be a problem of boundaries, and that a broad debate is already in full swing within the European Parliament.
That is quite simply what I meant to say.
Madam President, I would like to express in this House my amazement and my indignation at the fact that Commissioner Fischler should find himself, at the invitation of Mr Haider, at the inauguration ceremony of Carinthia House in Brussels last week.
I think the presence of a Commissioner by the side of a man whose racist and xenophobic ideas are notorious is equivalent to an endorsement, and moreover an endorsement that is an infringement of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I would like to see the Commission providing an explanation of this matter, Madam President, within this part-session.
Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
I note your comment.
Madam President, our regulations stipulate that Members of Parliament must be able to meet freely, within the European Parliament, any person resident on Union territory, and the quaestors are responsible for this, pursuant to the terms of Rule 25.
The fact remains, Madam President, that it is still necessary to actually make it possible for such persons to have access to Parliament.
Last week, a group of schoolchildren from a school in France was unable to pay a visit to the European Parliament in Brussels, as expected, because some of its pupils, nationals of a country outside the European Union, did not receive an entry/exit visa to the area concerned in sufficient time.
Would it be possible, Madam President, for you to refer the matter to the Member States, in order to establish an automatic simplified visa which may be made available within far shorter time limits so that all the schoolchildren invited to meet us when they come on school trips may actually be permitted to make the trip to the European Parliament, be it in Brussels or Strasbourg.
We shall indeed look into this matter in order to find a favourable solution.
Madam President, the Austrian Member of the European Commission, Franz Fischler, has been criticised here for taking part in an event with Jörg Haider.
I should like to say that this event was excellent, that the Austrian Commissioner Fischler made a very clear statement on nationalism in Europe and that his words had a great impact in Austria, because, of course, the question of whether Mr Haider's party might form part of an Austrian Government has been the subject of much debate.
I should, therefore, like to ask you not to criticise the fact that the Austrian Commissioner attended this event and instead to lend your full support to what he said.
Thank you, Mrs Berger, for adding this important detail.
Madam President, I rise to speak for a very sad reason.
Last Saturday, an aeroplane belonging to the SATA airline from the Portuguese autonomous region of the Azores crashed, killing the crew and 31 passengers.
This intervention would be justified by this accident alone, but the fact is that the people of the Azores have been punished over the years by natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tidal waves, which means in fact that suffering is part of their everyday life.
Therefore, Madam President, I would like to express, in my own name and I think on behalf of everyone, my sympathy with the people of the Azores, and I would like to ask you, Madam President, to convey, on behalf of the European Parliament, our deepest condolences to the Portuguese authorities, to the people of the Azores, and particularly to victims' families.
Thank you, Mr Seguro.
I shall do so very willingly, on behalf of the whole Parliament, and I believe that the applause shows that your request is well supported.
Madam President, I should simply like to assure Mr Swoboda that there most certainly is a European culture.
If there were not then there would be no Europeans, and there would be no point in building a European Union.
I should like to thank the Italian MEPs concerned for setting up the wonderful Christmas crib opposite the Chamber and I would invite all colleagues to take a look at this piece of European culture.
Madam President, with your permission I too will comment on the criticism made of the Austrian Commissioner Fischler.
Mrs Berger has, of course, already addressed this matter.
To my knowledge, Commissioner Fischler has so far visited all nine of the Austrian Provinces' liaison offices in Brussels.
You should be aware that Mr Fischler is a Tyrolean farmer: he goes where he sees fit to go and when he is there he says what he sees fit to say!
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot start a debate on the subject, especially if the party concerned is not present.
Mr President, I would very much like to bring to your attention the problems we are facing in Brussels, in particular those arising between the Members' chauffeurs and the security service.
We are currently facing enormous problems in this regard, which are causing a great deal of delay.
The Members have to wait in a basement full of exhaust fumes, which delays them and which does not do their health much good either.
Further to this, I would also like to bring to your notice the matter of the drop-off point next to this Parliament, since I can envisage problems, especially in winter, when one has to walk the 150 metres across the courtyard.
Perhaps it would be possible for the point to be set up on the other side, near the entrance.
We take note of your comment and we shall ask the quaestors to look into ways of providing a favourable solution.
Madam President, a remark on the question concerning European culture.
All Members of the European Parliament have had some very attractive UNICEF Christmas cards handed out to them to use for their Christmas and New Year greetings.
These cards are supplied with a paper insert showing the EU' s blue flag and a text in eleven languages.
This reads as follows: Best Wishes, De bedste ønsker, Frohes Fest, Meilleurs Vux, Migliori Auguri, Beste Wensen, Boas Festas and, in Swedish, Med bäste lyckönskningar, as it has become.
Now, these are not phrases you would normally write at Christmas.
So what is going on?
In fact, it looks as if the European Union has become so self-effacing in its response to other cultures that we dare not acknowledge the fact that it is Christmas and our culture' s New Year which we are to be celebrating shortly.
It is obviously considered that we might offend against other religions if we were to emphasise that we are in fact a Christian part of the world and that in Europe we therefore say Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, Joyeux Noël et Bonne Année etc. Madam President, this is not first and foremost a question of religion or faith.
For me, it is a matter of daring to stand by one' s own culture.
A people or nation or Europe which, out of a misguided sense of protocol, does not cherish its own culture is in danger of dying out, so I would call on my colleagues to throw away the EU' s insert and just use UNICEF' s beautiful Christmas cards.
Thank you, Mr Camre. I do not think we can easily undertake a debate on European culture.
It would take us the whole night.
Madam President, as a Member from the Freiheitliche Partei Österreichs (Austrian Freedom Party), I was elected just as democratically as any other Member of this House.
Dr Haider was elected with 42% of the vote in Carinthia in a free, democratic election.
If Members of this House, who are trying to build a united Europe, believe that in this Europe, some voters are respectable and some are not and that, therefore, some Members are respectable and some are not, then they should study the history of Europe this century.
We cannot exclude people from here, because by so doing we exclude those who elected them in democratic elections.
All of us have the right to sit here because we were democratically elected.
Madam President, I would just like to address you on behalf of the Members of Parliament who stay behind on Friday morning.
We have the impression that we are being left very much to our own devices in this building.
Let me give you just one example. On the Friday of the last part-session, I wanted to access my mail.
I tried, but it was impossible.
I attempted to contact an official.
Honestly, I did everything I could, but there was no one who could help me.
I discussed this with other Members who were also still here with me on Friday morning, and the general opinion was that we felt that we had been utterly deserted.
Thank you, Mrs Roure, I take due note of your comment, and we shall attempt to overcome your feeling of abandonment.
Madam President, I myself have two children who are Protestants and I always celebrate Christmas in the proper way.
I wanted to say this to my fellow Members. However, personally I am not a Christian.
Jews, Muslims and many people of other faiths live in Europe. For this reason I should like my colleagues to accept, at long last, that Europe is not populated solely by Christians.
Although I am not a Christian, I am still a Member of this House.
Some interventions make me wonder where on earth I am.
Does this mean that I am not a European?
Perhaps Mr Posselt might like to answer that question.
Thank you, Mr Ceyhun.
You see, Mr Swoboda, when I said cautiously in my text that the debate was far from over, I believe that ultimately I was quite right, and that this is indeed a major debate.
Madam President, in a short intervention on this matter, I would like to ask Mr Swoboda not to make this kind of racist and xenophobic statement.
It is to the Arab world, to Arabic culture, that Europe today owes its entire Greek heritage; it is to the Arab world that it owes all its understanding of Greek culture.
Mr Swoboda, please stop using this kind of language, because I do not think that it has any place in today' s Europe.
Thank you, Mr Ripoll y Martinez de Bedoya.
Agenda
Madam President, what the PPE-DE Group has actually requested is, since this is a very short report, if it could go before Mr Rothley' s report on vehicle insurance.
So you would like it to be presented before Mr Rothley' s report.
(Parliament gave its assent)
Still relating to Monday, i.e. today, regarding the recommendation for the second reading on substances depleting the ozone layer and the motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs produced using genetically modified organisms, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has requested that these two items be tabled at a different time on the grounds that their examination in plenary session would coincide with the committee meeting, which would not be very practical.
Given that these items can not be brought forward on the agenda, I would propose that they be entered at the end of today' s agenda, i.e. after Mr Aparicio Sánchez' s report.
I think that is all we can do.
The committee meets at 7.30 tonight, because we have to deal with a proposal which has come late to us from the European Commission.
We understand that we cannot accelerate the procedure so that we come first on the list of subjects for debate, so we will debate this, as usual in a crowded House, at about 11.15 tonight.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak against this request?
(Parliament gave its assent)
Tuesday and Wednesday: no amendments proposed.
Relating to Thursday: President.
We now come to Mr Chichester' s report, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on units of measurement.
The PPE-DE Group has requested that this should be voted without debate, and the vote should be included in voting time on Wednesday.
This report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority of 47 to 1 without amendment.
It concerns a small but important modification of an existing directive which needs to be implemented before the end of this year in order to prevent many European companies from being in breach from January onwards.
The Finnish Presidency would very much like to adopt this proposal in Council this week.
The last meeting of the Council this year is on Thursday and, if the House wills it and is agreeable, I would like to make a formal proposal that, instead of a debate, we have a vote on the report on Wednesday.
This would enable the Council to go through its procedures very swiftly and make a lot of European industries happy.
I understand that it would be something of a first to achieve agreement with unanimity in the Council on the first reading.
I should therefore like to propose a vote without debate on Wednesday.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak against this request?
(Parliament gave its assent)
I must point out that the deadline for the submission of amendments must be brought forward to 10 a.m. on Tuesday 14 December.
Regarding the subjects for the debate on topical and urgent debates of major importance, we have received several requests for amendments.
Firstly, the PPE-DE Group wishes to have the sub-item "Prison conditions of political prisoners in Djibouti" replaced by a new sub-item entitled "Arrest of the President of the Court of Auditors in Nicaragua" .
Who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
Madam President, the arrest of the President of the Nicaraguan Court of Auditors is indeed extremely worrying.
This is a case of someone who is currently in prison just as presidential elections are about to be held in Nicaragua.
We feel that the European institutions must now draw attention to this matter.
We will be approving next year' s budget with considerable amounts earmarked for the plan for the reconstruction of Nicaragua after the damage caused by hurricane Mitch, and I think that our role must be to support and uphold democratic institutions, which are seeking to ensure that the rules are properly observed.
Therefore, Madam President, we feel that for all of these reasons, given the situation, we must adopt this matter for a topical and urgent debate.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal?
Madam President, I would just like to say that the case brought up by Mr Salafranca is unquestionably a serious one, and that his proposal is one worthy of support, but not at the expense of the case of political prisoners in Djibouti, who are sick, have been left untreated and are detained in utterly inhuman conditions for a very long time now.
I believe that in this matter a great deal is expected of the European Parliament, and we would be giving out quite the wrong signal if we were to strike this topic from our debate.
I shall now put to the vote the PPE-DE proposal with a view, therefore, to replacing one item by another, given that it is not possible to add another item since the number of subjects is limited to five.
(Parliament approved the request)
I have received three requests for additions to the "human rights" item.
As you know, Annex 3 paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedures stipulates that the "human rights" item may include only five items.
We already have four items entered on the list given in the final draft agenda, which means that we can only add one of the new items proposed.
The requests for additions shall therefore be put to the vote in order of their submission, and they shall be mutually exclusive.
These requests are as follows.
Firstly, the request from the PPE-DE Group for a sub-item entitled "Restoring civil rights to members of deposed European royal families" .
Next, the request from the PSE Group for a sub-item on the "Fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Convention" and finally the ELDR Group' s request for a sub-item on "Angola" .
We shall now put to the vote the proposal on the restoration of civil rights to the members of former European royal families.
Madam President, you were very kind to receive me and His Royal Highness Prince Victor Emmanuel of Italy this afternoon, so I believe you know the full details behind the case.
But just to refresh the memories of colleagues, the motion which was circulated to Parliament was about restoring the rights of former royal families of Europe, in particular those of Austria and Italy, who are still denied their full civil and political rights as citizens of the European Union.
Prince Victor Emmanuel has been in exile for 50 years now.
He is an old man. He is asking to be allowed to go back to his country of origin.
Why is this urgent?
Because this law to amend the Italian constitution has been before the Senate three or four times and the left have always obstructed it, although they have paid lip service to the idea that it is possible to make a new law to allow him back in.
I want this Parliament to call upon the Commission to look at this issue from a European Union perspective for the first time and reinstate these families' full civil and political rights.
My case rests there.
Madam President, I do not have anything against Victor Emmanuel as such or against anybody from Austria referred to in the motion, although I am old enough to remember the Italian occupation of my country during the reign of Victor Emmanuel.
In any case, this is not the issue, the issue is the extremely general wording contained in the motion, i.e. "civil rights for members of former royal European houses, any former royal European houses" .
We too have a former royal house, whose misdemeanours are a lot more recent. I should like to declare, therefore, on behalf of the PASOK representatives, that we find it totally unacceptable that these issues are being discussed as it is an intrusion into an extremely delicate matter which should be discussed in our country before being brought to bear at European level.
Besides, as regards the basic matter of the status of the ex-Royal Family, the Greek people expressed their opinion quite clearly in the 1974 referendum.
Madam President, I draw your attention to Annex III of the Rules of Procedure which lays down the guidelines and general principles to be followed when choosing the subjects to be included on the agenda for topical and urgent debates of major importance.
It specifies in paragraph 1 that these matters ought actually to be urgent and relate to an event such that the current part-session is the only part-session of the European Parliament at which a vote can be held in time.
This is an important issue.
It has been on the agenda of many national parliaments for many years.
But I fail to see why it is urgent in the sense of our rules.
Madam President, I would like to take the floor in regard to the order of business, and to refer to history.
As regards the order of business, I would like to stress that the matter is, in fact, urgent. And so I am responding to the point of order the Member was making because if we do not consider something urgent after 55 years then there is something wrong with us.
I would also like to refer to history for the benefit of Mr Katiforis, a defender of Greek culture.
I would like to remind him that when Prince Victor Emmanuel was exiled from his native country he was four years old which, in my opinion, makes it unlikely that he could have invaded Greece.
The most he could have done was invade his back garden!
Therefore, I am asking the Members to brush up on the cultural history of our peoples and of Europe.
I think it is important to keep to the subject and not to hold political and ideological prejudices which are so strong that they prevent us from keeping calm when considering human rights in this Chamber.
The request Mr Tannock has made concerns human rights, and, a few days ago, fifty years of human rights in Europe were celebrated.
I think it is quite obvious that this request is relevant, especially for this part-session which is ending a century of war and, we hope, ushering in a millennium of peace.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot start a debate on this subject.
Mr Corbett' s contribution was indeed a point of order since it raised the question of the urgent nature of the proposed sub-item, and Mrs Muscardini responded.
Now we are going to put the PPE-DE request to the vote.
(Parliament rejected the request)
We shall now move on to the request on the fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Convention.
Who is to speak in favour of this request?
Madam President, I do not think that we should miss this opportunity to commemorate this anniversary, which marks a very important milestone for mankind.
We have achieved a great deal.
We could dispense with a debate because we have already achieved everything we set out to do.
However, since much remains to be done both within and outside Europe, we should at least draft a clear opinion on the subject in this Parliament.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against?
Madam President, a point of order.
It is kind of Mr Corbett to raise the points under Annex III of our Rules of Procedure.
Given that this is a fiftieth anniversary, we could take this at any part-session, rather than at this particular one.
Therefore we could put it under a motion for debate at some point in the future.
I agree entirely with your proposal. I only regret that it should come so late.
I imagine that Mr Swoboda and his friends would have voted differently just now on the proposal regarding political prisoners in Djibouti if they had know that the item on Nicaragua could have been on the agenda.
I therefore suggest that the vote on the Djibouti prisoners be repeated.
WTO Millennium Round
The next item is the Commission statement on the WTO Millennium Round (Seattle, 30 November to 3 December 1999).
May I welcome Mr Pascal Lamy and immediately give him the floor.
Madam President, the Seattle Conference ended in failure.
Why?
I can see two circumstantial reasons and one intrinsic reason.
The circumstances are familiar to you.
Firstly, the conference failed due to lack of time.
Only Friday afternoon remained, i.e. too little time to come to a conclusion within a reasonable period.
This can be explained by the way the conference itself was run, since it did not enable any real negotiation until the last two days.
There was also, another circumstantial reason, a manifest inability on the part of some delegations to engage in a real process of negotiation on the order of business and, in this respect, one has to wonder if the fact that the opening of the conference coincided with the launching of the election campaign in the United States was a good thing.
It indeed appeared that this country was scarcely prepared to shift position on any subject whatsoever, which by definition makes it hard to conclude negotiations successfully.
As for the intrinsic reason, I believe that the failure of the conference can be explained by the gap between the ambitions of the World Trade Organisation and its resources.
WTO procedures proved to be inappropriate to the simultaneous requirement to integrate new parties, i.e. an increasing number of developing countries who are demanding their place around the table, and new subjects, which goes beyond our traditional agenda.
These new subjects are ones that you are aware of: the environment, social standards, for example.
Considering the number of parties and subjects involved and the fundamental differences between a number of participants, the chances of arriving at an agreement were extremely slim.
If we dwell for a moment on this intrinsic reason, I believe it must be acknowledged that the WTO must no longer henceforth supervise the negotiation of liberalisation between industrialised countries and that this order has been changed in two ways: firstly, it is no longer possible to limit ourselves to lowering some tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade.
We must concern ourselves with the impact of this liberalisation on the main parameters of our development models, the fundamental rights of workers, environmental and health protection, cultural diversity, multifunctionality in agriculture and quality of the environment.
Secondly, it is no longer possible to circumscribe negotiation to just a few participants, the Union and its friends, the United States and the Cairns group.
In Seattle, it was necessary, more than in the past, to take into account the chief third world partners, India, Brazil, South Africa, Egypt, plus the emerging economies, particularly in South East Asia, and also our partners, the ACP countries.
Tomorrow, we shall probably also have to take China into account.
The combination of new subjects and new participants opens up very good prospects of progressing towards controlled globalisation, but the difficulty of such an enterprise is readily apparent.
As far as the issues were concerned, the Union had made good preparations for Seattle, advocating a broad agenda which complied with the expectations of society, and which was championed by Parliament, the elected body, the legitimate representative of this society.
In addition to extending the negotiations to all the partners, including developing countries, the European Union also took the initiative to open up the conference by means of an offer to guarantee the least advanced countries broad zero-duty access to the markets of the industrialised countries.
It succeeded in aligning, first, Japan with this initiative, and then also perhaps the United States and Canada.
But let us make no mistake and let us keep our eyes open wide.
In return for their support of our agenda in terms of society, the environment, health and workers' rights, developing countries with average revenue and emerging economies are going to be asking for substantial improvements in access to our markets.
And Seattle has demonstrated that we still had to convince these countries that our concerns, your concerns, are something other than reflexes in defence of our own well-being which often seems so much of a privilege to them.
Let me just briefly mention the European Union' s strategy in Seattle.
The Community is well positioned to build bridges between the positions of industrialised countries and developing countries.
We showed this clearly at Seattle, where we were well prepared both politically and in terms of content and we enjoyed the support, the precious support, I believe, of both the Council and of Parliament.
We remained united and, at the same time, open.
Occasionally, we shifted position if it was deemed necessary in order to move the negotiations on.
This was the case, for example, regarding the biotechnology group, which I considered appropriate to accept at a certain time. This gave rise to sharp criticism from some Member States, and indeed from some Members of Parliament.
I take full responsibility for the risk
taken at this time, given that the European Union was the only delegation which was pushing an ambitious agenda on the subject of the environment.
I remain convinced that a biotechnology group focussed on factual analysis and not on negotiation would have been a small price to pay in order to get a considerable raft of environmental proposals through.
We also made a major effort as regards information and participation in order to put into practice the intentions I expressed before this House during the parliamentary hearings in September.
A delegation of representatives of the European Parliament was part of our Community delegation.
We kept in contact on an on-going basis, enabling an exchange of views and information, which proved to be extremely useful to me in my capacity as a negotiator.
This positive experience strengthens my conviction that we should continue to involve the European Parliament more closely in framing our common trade policy.
In the interests of increased transparency, we also, for the first time, brought in a group of consultants representing management and unions, the Economic and Social Committee and NGOs.
Through them, we maintained contact with society and economic and social interest groups.
Daily briefings were organised for the economic organisations and the NGOs accredited by the WTO.
On the whole, we return from Seattle with the feeling that we did much to make this conference a success.
Now we have to continue the work which has been started.
What direction should we be going in and what do we have to do now?
The Commission considers that initiating a new round on the basis of a broad agenda remains our priority.
We must now, however, proceed with caution.
A second failed attempt would, of course, be disastrous.
It is not clear at present at what time we will be able to recommence the round of negotiations.
You have to realise that there is a real feeling of discontent in developing countries, and that any attempt to restart the process must necessarily involve repairing the damage caused in this area, which may take some time.
What are our options?
I can see three possibilities.
The first scenario is to convene another ministerial conference quickly.
The people in favour of this scenario claim that there was, after all, substantial progress in Seattle, for example, concerning questions of market access, the promotion of trade or services.
From this point of view, the subjects which were not successfully concluded in Seattle, such as agriculture, anti-dumping and fundamental social standards, should now be tackled quickly.
The President of the United States has just declared that the round may be quickly recommenced.
The bilateral Summit at which we are to meet this week will afford us the opportunity to check whether this is a sign of flexibility or just a repetition of the well-known American positions which favour a round limited to market access.
The second scenario is rather more gloomy.
It takes account of the hypothesis which says that the United States will not, in any event, make any moves during an election campaign.
If that should prove true, there would be no progress before the year 2001.
The implications of this scenario are worrying ones.
Not only would we lose precious time, but that would also mean that the inability of a single partner to move would be enough to paralyse the entire multilateral system.
There is a third scenario, one I would call an interim scenario.
If we do not wish to wait for 18 months before resuming negotiations, let us try as of now to move things forward step by step.
An interim package might make it possible to restore confidence in the system and to create conditions favourable to the launch of a new round as soon as possible.
It would therefore be necessary to continue the preparations in progress at Geneva, particularly our process of alliance moving towards broader negotiations.
In this context, the following steps could be envisaged.
Firstly, institutional reform of the WTO.
Well before Seattle, we had submitted detailed proposals on the transparency of WTO activities.
We must go further and determine precisely the causes of the practical problems which slowed down the process in Seattle, and then propose some practical solutions which are centred on the efficiency-transparency axis.
As regards transparency, it is clear that decision making and negotiations must be legitimised in the clearest and most consistent manner.
As regards efficiency, the organisation of work, the procedures, the bodies, and the ministerial conferences must be reviewed with a view to obtaining practical results.
One of the suggestions put forward by the Members of the European Parliament present at Seattle and reiterated last week by a number of Member States was to convene a parliamentary assembly.
This idea appeals to me, since it would make it possible to strengthen democratic control over work within the WTO.
The third crucial element is developing countries.
These are among the countries most disappointed and most affected by the lack of results.
Restarting the process leading to a new round must by necessity represent substantial progress for them, if we wish to obtain their support.
One of the ways to obtain this support would be to maintain our offer to the least advanced countries and to examine together the coordination between the action of the WTO and that of other international institutions in order to ensure that trade liberalisation results in sustainable development for all developing countries, beginning with the very poorest peoples.
These interim steps which I have just outlined would enable us to keep the process alive and to be ready, when the time comes, to resume work for a complete round.
We must therefore combine two approaches.
Firstly, regarding the content, in striving to form alliances and to retain support in favour of a broad approach to the round, and secondly, on the form, the institutional plan and the procedures, in order to set in place all we shall need throughout future negotiations.
This is the direction we will work in, if the Council and Parliament are in agreement.
(Loud applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, no result is better than a bad result.
That is the conclusion which we too believe should be drawn from the unsuccessful negotiations in Seattle.
May I thank you, Commissioner Lamy, and the entire Commission Delegation for being so well prepared and for leading the negotiations so skilfully.
By taking such a dynamic lead - in close cooperation with the European Parliament Delegation - the Commission showed, with its comprehensive negotiating strategy, that it had set the course for a possible success.
The poor level of preparation on the part of the WTO, but also the tactics of the United States and other countries, did not, however, permit a successful conclusion.
It is with satisfaction that we also not only take note of your support - which you have just reiterated - for the WTO parliamentary assembly which we have called for, but also express the hope that you will give us practical support as far as those responsible in the WTO are concerned in our efforts to make this a reality.
In this process, cooperation between the European Union, North America, Mercosur, ASEAN and the ACP countries should allow this parliamentary assembly to be organised effectively, with the regional groupings able to play an important role in the interests of greater efficacy.
Now, what needs to be done in the months, and perhaps in the year, ahead?
We too believe that we need to keep the global negotiating strategy and consolidate it further in the coming months.
We need to open and pursue an active dialogue with those countries, including the newly industrialised and developing countries, whose positions still diverge widely from ours.
Our chances of winning over these countries should be all the greater if we remain consistent.
The focus here should be on the following core areas of trade in goods and services: further reductions in tariffs and the gradual elimination of non-tariff barriers to trade; investment; competition and services; intellectual property; public procurement and e-commerce.
They are essential components of further trade liberalisation and will benefit most of our negotiating partners.
In addition, reform of the WTO is urgent and imperative.
Secondly, in this process, European environmental and health policies, minimum social standards and development policy should retain their status.
Thirdly, at the forthcoming negotiations on agriculture, emphasis should be placed on the multifunctional reasons for our European model of agriculture - the further development of rural areas, the provision of high-quality agricultural products and the environment - with reference being made also to Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture.
In the negotiations with China, which are now beginning, we should concentrate on our own interests, which are in part also contrary to those of the United States.
Reducing the high Chinese peak tariffs, protecting intellectual property and facilitating investment are the most important points here.
Increased market access for the least developed countries - and this is something which we need to consider together - should in any case be achieved very soon as part of the negotiations on the new ACP convention, although I do not know whether this will work on a unilateral basis.
These countries should be granted waivers of between eight and ten years to allow them to adopt the comprehensive WTO body of legislation slowly and gradually, without neglecting their programme of sustainable development.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have listened closely to your intervention on the Seattle Conference and we appreciate your adherence to the debate, to the commitments that you made here, specifically in the November part-session in which this issue was discussed.
It is nevertheless true that, as you yourself pointed out, no agreement was reached in Seattle, and the problems remain.
They remain, and for us Socialists, the failure is not just that no agreement was reached.
The failure can be seen in the fact that following the Uruguay Round, the volume of trade in the context of this agreement has increased but unfortunately, so has the gap between developed and developing countries.
For those who see trade as an instrument for making society more harmonious and prosperous, as we Socialists do, this situation can only be of grave concern.
This is why our points of view are still valid in relation to the content, the strategy and the nature of the agreement.
It is worth stating once again that where the content is concerned, we are still fighting for environmental issues, for consumer protection, for social and human rights, for cultural diversity and for the multifunctional role of agriculture.
This is not with a view to indulging in a pretty protectionist strategy where the markets are concerned, but with a view to guaranteeing the kind of global society that we can now glimpse.
In terms of strategy, we would like to see the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament combine their efforts and unite in the same direction.
I also think it important, as your words imply, that we should not be totally dependent on the United States and that we are able to find new partnerships, not only in terms of trade with other regional blocs and with other world trading powers.
Thirdly, in relation to the nature of the agreement: it is true that we all wanted an agreement, but failure to reach one is better than an agreement which will have an unsatisfactory outcome.
This is why we are once again arguing for an overall agreement and not sectoral agreements, which is what the United States is once again seeking.
We feel that the market is not a solution to all problems but neither is it the source of all evil.
The market is essential to wealth creation and it is with this in mind that we want to argue for five more points here:
firstly, a new agenda for Geneva that is not just the "leftovers" from Marrakech;
secondly, to uphold the European Union' s common strategy of seeking out numerous new partnerships;
thirdly, greater transparency and more legitimacy in the decisions, which is why we support the proposal for a Parliamentary body which would monitor the democratic nature of proceedings;
fourthly, that the European institutions understand why non-governmental organisations should be present in Seattle and specifically that the European Parliament should be able to find fora for discussion, debate and ideas so that we can be spokespeople for this civil community whose concerns are exactly the same as ours.
And finally, Mr President, I would like to end by saying that we support institutional reform that enables developing countries to be given greater consideration in the WTO' s decision-making process.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Lamy for his interesting and helpful remarks this afternoon and to reiterate on behalf of the ELDR Group our gratitude to him and his staff for the close cooperation which we successfully established in Seattle.
One general remark if I may.
Much has been said since Seattle about the procedural and organisational shortcomings of the WTO.
Whilst all proposals to improve WTO procedures are naturally welcome, there is a danger that we might be embarking on the reinvention of the wheel.
The WTO is an intergovernmental organisation with over 130 members, so it will remain, by definition, a somewhat cumbersome decision-making forum.
That is, unfortunately, the unavoidable nature of the beast.
A concentration on procedural and organisational issues should not blind us to one simple fact: if the political will had existed in Seattle, particularly within the US Administration, the procedural flaws of the system would have been overcome.
Thus our primary task remains a political, not a technical one, namely to rehabilitate the public case for further trade liberalisation, not only for the benefit of European businesses and consumers, but most particularly because open trade offers the only viable long-term solution to poverty in a developing world.
That is why the ELDR Group hopes that the Commission, the Council and this Parliament will embark on a proactive attempt to remake the political case for further trade liberalisation in general and for a new comprehensive round, rather than an intermediate round, in particular.
The EU/US Summit which takes place the day after tomorrow is exactly the right place to start since it is the US which has been found to be most politically wanting in recent weeks and months.
The need for EU political leadership which was amply on display in Seattle in international trade affairs is now more acute than ever.
Whilst to focus on procedural details is essential, no amount of organisational improvements will compensate for the biggest loss at Seattle, a loss of political conviction in the merits of open, multilateral rules-based trade liberalisation.
Mr President, following the Seattle failure, we still have all the same problems, but nothing is the same as it was before.
Our first task, therefore, is to make a lucid diagnosis of what happened in order to assume our responsibilities in full knowledge of the facts.
I have heard the analysis which Mr Lamy has given, as it were, from inside the institution.
I would like to offer an outsider' s point of view.
In Seattle, I had the opportunity to have discussions lasting many hours with these men and women, the representatives of society, as it were, who came from all four corners of the earth.
I was also able to hold talks with some of the main organisers of this mobilisation of forces.
They naturally gauged the influence and the support they enjoyed throughout the world: they were, therefore, enthusiastic and determined, but in no way violent, populist or nationalistic, as some observers saw fit to caricature them.
They were well informed, thoughtful, adult in their attitude.
They meant to be involved in decisions as responsible citizens, and no longer just treated as passive consumers.
They were not challenging opening up to the world, but the globalisation of a mercantile attitude.
Far from identifying with the champions of their own countries in the world-wide economic war, the different people involved were together censuring the capitalism of the multinationals, the relentless quest for profits, treating the natural world as a commodity, going as far as to patent living things, the levelling of cultures, the entrenchment of inequalities practically everywhere, especially between the North and South.
Their ambition was quite simply to make the modern world more civilised, to make globalisation more human.
"People before benefits" was one of their favourite slogans.
We must listen to them, as Mr Somavia wisely noted, the present Director General of the International Labour Organisation, which four years ago was the moving spirit behind the International Conference in Copenhagen, where all the world' s Heads of State undertook to reduce poverty by half by 2015.
Listening to them would involve changing the WTO radically.
This starts, in my opinion, with the current framework of the WTO, a framework which is not really universal but is truly unequal, as Mr Lannoye very clearly depicted.
It also involves the current tasks of the WTO which set the objective of capturing market shares in precedence to absolutely everything, including the commitments made by the international community as regards social, environmental or health matters, or the development of the south.
Changing the WTO, finally, involves its current mode of operation, which is still based on Summit diplomacy and secrecy at a time when citizens are becoming actively involved in world affairs.
This is why I am arguing, Mr President, in favour of a proper study offering a critical analysis of past experience, followed by the Union taking the offensive in favour of a more democratic organisation, open to society, which is truly universal and which steadfastly overcomes the divide between commercial considerations and the demands of sustainable and socially cohesive development.
This would be one more fine ambition for Europe' s emerging policy on foreign affairs and security.
Mr President, if the failure of Seattle really were to lead to a standstill or slow down the trade integration processes at global level, it would be a disaster.
It would be a disaster for the producers and the workers of the weakest countries, and not, as was said, for the multinationals, which would find, as they have always found, ways to penetrate industry and trade more deeply anywhere in the world.
It would be a disaster for the consumers in European countries, in particular for the weakest consumers who would be frustrated in their hope to have a wide choice of products from all over the world at lower prices than those found in the national markets.
It would be a disaster for the environment, as the poorest countries, whose products would be denied access to European and American markets, would continue to exploit natural resources.
Seattle did not fail, Commissioner, because of the WTO' s inadequacy or the United States' electoral campaign, although this did contribute to the failure. Seattle failed because the political desire of the main countries was to slow down, instead of accelerating international trade.
Europe, Commissioner, added its problems, thus overburdening the agenda with subjects unrelated to the specific field of international trade and providing an excuse for those who stood to benefit from applying pressure to slow down the process of integrating world markets, but certainly these benefits - I repeat - did not extend to European consumers or Indian or Pakistani workers.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that Europe, with its age-old tradition of the market economy, free trade and economic freedom - freedom which does not need to be qualified by adjectives - must assert that the objective of integrating the markets and of free trade is a goal in itself, which we must attain for ourselves and all the other countries.
Let us leave the other matters to the competent bodies!
Mr President, I do not agree with those speakers who said that the Commission as our negotiator did us wrong so far as the European Union was concerned.
On the contrary, I would support those who have said that not only did they have a coherent delegation to lead but that the practical arrangements for us - the largest Parliamentary delegation which had ever attended international trade talks - were to our mutual benefit.
It looks as though we will have to wait for the new millennium now for a Millennium Round.
Was it a victory, a disaster or an unexpected welcome break in Seattle?
People are right to say that the procedure should have been better.
We need better decision making.
We need quicker dispute settlement procedures.
However, it was the substance which was the problem: an overload of a traditional trade agenda with non-trade issues.
Globalisation has led to a number of issues which touch the sovereignty of Nation States being put on a trade agenda.
President Clinton's call for the enforcement of trade labour standards for developing countries and elsewhere in the world was the death knell of these talks.
But linking these two together - procedure and substance - I welcome the Commissioner's support for a parliamentary body of some kind.
This will not only help the democratic accountability of the WTO, help to provide an on-going interface with non-governmental organisations, but also help the gradual evolution of the non-trade concerns on the agenda.
These are, after all, concerns of elected representatives.
In this respect, it is an unexpected welcome break.
But let us have no illusions.
The US Administration is not going to change its position before the election.
Nevertheless, when we were in Seattle we had excellent talks with US legislators.
I ask the Commission to help us develop our contacts on discussion of specific issues such as agriculture in the intervening period so we can assist this intermediate solution.
I believe they are willing to have dialogue with us on a number of specific issues.
Maybe dialogue between transatlantic legislators can help in this area.
Mr President, I think Members should realise what an excellent negotiator we had in Pascal Lamy.
Of those taking part in the discussions, he was far and away the most skilful and appeared to show the most stamina.
That is important to recognise.
The discussions in Seattle were perhaps more complex than could have been anticipated: they were certainly over-ambitious, and that should have been anticipated.
There was a quite absurd concentration of time limits, particularly since some of the time was lost because of extraneous events.
There was a hysterical press interest, not in what was happening in the discussions, but in what was happening on the streets, which was largely due to complete clumsiness by the local police.
There was a complexity because of the sheer number of participants, not only from the countries concerned, but from NGOs, from lobbyists, from national government delegations and from others.
The issues themselves were complex.
This was not a game of poker, it was a complex game of chess with completely justifiable but contradictory claims taking the stage.
The European Union was, in fact, very well placed.
Over the years of our existence we have managed to put in place environmental and social rules alongside trade rules.
It can be done in international discussions.
It is not easy but it is essential and we are well placed because we have, to a limited extent, managed that.
We were well placed because of our links with the ACP countries, although there was an issue over their waiver which clouded the discussions, and because we have always worked well with NGOs.
We were well placed in having a large parliamentary delegation.
I am pleased that our socialist amendment calling for a parliamentary assembly was taken up world-wide.
The issue of agriculture: The United States and other countries refused to understand, even though it is a very simple notion, the multifunctional reasons for our common agricultural policy.
They refuse to admit that they subsidise their agriculture in a much less transparent way than we do.
As far as environmental issues were concerned, these are not and should not be simply concerns of rich countries, but they were portrayed as such and there is a great deal of work to do in bringing those issues to a State where they are not thought of as protectionism.
Mr Lamy says that the biotech working group was fact-finding, but the widespread perception was that it would interfere with the setting-up of the bio-safety protocol and colleagues will say more about that.
Animal welfare was perceived by poor countries as a rich person's interest which, to some of them, was almost obscene where we are confronted with starving people.
That is something again we will have to work on and similarly with core labour standards.
It is important that the WTO is restored in a reformed way.
The alternative is the United States making bilateral agreements from a position of strength with the poorer countries of the world.
That is not what we want.
We, in the Parliament, must follow this issue along with Mr Lamy and other Commissioners until we get something that is appropriate to the age which we are moving into.
Mr President, Commissioner, the EU did a good job in Seattle.
The cooperation was good, which I am grateful for.
The problem is that the WTO basically lacks popular support, and the developing countries, even if they are present there, feel left out.
I therefore believe that it was very important indeed that we agreed to demand greater openness and to make room for popular influence on decision making by means of a parliamentary forum.
When it comes to the failure in Seattle, I do not however believe that we should "cry over spilled milk" , as we say in Sweden.
Instead, we should use the time to do some forward thinking.
We have been made aware of the problems and we have also, I think, glimpsed certain possibilities.
Unlike Mrs McNally, I perceive, rather, a slight opening-up on the part of the Americans, not least in the sphere of agriculture.
America has trebled the amount of its agricultural subsidies since the last farm bill was adopted and, although the multifunctional reasons for our policy may not be recognised, large parts of its content nonetheless are in fact acknowledged, which I think is positive.
As a relatively liberal, perhaps very liberal, European politician where agriculture is concerned, I should like to say that we ourselves within the EU ought to reflect upon how we can change the CAP, Agenda 2000 and what follows Agenda 2000 and consider how we might get rid of subsidies which drive down the level of trade.
It would be good to discuss this with the developing countries because these are very dependent indeed upon exporting raw materials.
It would also be good for other exporters.
In fact, an enlarged EU, which we hope we are making great strides towards, will also become more and more dependent precisely upon being able to export agricultural products.
It is in specifically this situation that I think that the present talks and the reflections we can engage in will be extremely useful.
I believe there are good opportunities for making further progress.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy and others have spoken of the Seattle meeting as a failure but I still believe that, if the EU and the US in particular learn the lessons of the past few weeks, the meeting in Seattle could still go down in history not as a failure but as the moment when world leaders finally realised that they need a radically different approach to international trade.
First, they must learn that rich countries can no longer get something for nothing.
If they want rightly to link social and environmental concerns with trade they will need both to prove that their motives are not protectionist and to deliver substantial gains for developing countries in return.
Those gains could include tariff-free access for all goods from the poorest countries, the abolition of tariff peaks and agreements to stop export dumping.
Second, it is clear that trade deals can no longer be secretly stitched up between the more powerful WTO members.
Developing countries have shown a new determination to resist such marginalisation.
The playing field between the richer and poorer countries is anything but level.
If you look at negotiating capacity alone, the EU and the US were present in Seattle with whole armies of lawyers and advisors.
The poorer countries were there with very few.
I have also heard - and I would be grateful to know if this is true - that 30 countries, members of the WTO, could not even afford to be at the meeting to negotiate.
The WTO process needs to be made far more democratic and transparent.
I believe that we need a forum to discuss proposals for radical reform with the environmental and development groups who have been working on this subject for a great many years.
There is no need to re-invent the wheel.
There are good proposals out there.
We need to learn from them.
Finally, WTO members must at last listen to the 1 200 non-governmental organisations from nearly 100 countries who signed a declaration demanding no further trade liberalisation until the social and environmental impacts of existing liberalisation have been addressed and the problems put right.
The stalling of the talks in Seattle gives us an opportunity to do just that.
Mr President, Commissioner, the most important issue of the negotiations of the Millennium Round were the grass-root reactions.
It was the first time that protests on that scale have been held in the United States since the war in Vietnam.
The awakening of people' s movements all over the world proves the objection to the principles of the World Trade Organisation.
Indeed, trade liberalisation, the abolishment of subsidies, free investments, the commercialisation of services, even education, health and cultural services, serve the major interests of the monopolies to increase their profit margins. However, it is not at all appealing for the workers or the people.
Even the much-publicised complete abolition of tariffs on products from poorer countries will precipitate the pillaging of wealth of those countries, while on the other hand it will deluge the market with cheap products replacing corresponding products from countries such as mine.
The World Trade Organisation was not formed to protect the interests of workers and the people, the proof of which lies in the fact that the main decision-makers are the few wealthy countries and in the widening of inequalities between rich and poor countries, and also within those countries.
The Commissioner made no mention of the grass-root reactions.
Obviously, he wants to downplay them, and tell us that whatever the people do, the American, European, Japanese monopolies and the rest will impose their will and overcome these reactions together.
We are certain that the grass-root reactions all over the world were probably the sole cause of the failure of these talks not just because the demonstrators thwarted the formal opening ceremony but because they created a climate which cannot be ignored even by those who think they control the world.
And we have only just begun.
Mr President, as has already been said, unfortunately, overall, Seattle was not a great success: the only real participants were the protestors, who, while their demands were supported by many extremely valid grounds, wrongly thought that the failure of the Summit itself would constitute a victory, a solution to the serious problems in question.
In reality, the problems and contradictions of the global economy are still there, unresolved and still relevant: doubts about genetically modified organisms, child labour, the negative social effects of unbridled, unregulated globalisation.
But that is not all: perhaps these protests served as a pretext for the official participants at Seattle - those with the right to sit round the conference table - not to have to fully assume the political responsibility to negotiate, which, although certainly very difficult is absolutely necessary, precisely as regards social rights and safeguarding our citizens' health. These are negotiations that cannot wait any longer.
Of course, we are dealing with a complicated process, but Europe has to be equal to the challenges facing it.
Talks within the World Trade Organisation have to start up again, and Europe has to be very aware of its role, a role of balance and responsibility, with a view to globalisation with a human aspect that is open and welcomes changes and acceleration in the economy but is also able to safeguard equal employment opportunities, the environment and health.
Finally, Europe must not forget to defend our own specific differences, not just economic but also cultural and social, because globalisation that leads to uniformity, levelling out and exploitation must have no place at all in the European growth model.
Mr President, the Seattle negotiations enabled us to see a small political opening up of the European Union' s positions on agriculture as is the case with environmental concerns, food safety and the development of rural communities.
This is nevertheless very little when compared with the very negative aspects that our trade partners are trying to impose on us in the text of the Agenda.
I am referring to two points in particular:
The first was an obsessive reference to the substantial reduction of internal aid for agriculture without taking the slightest account of the diversity of different countries' structures of production and without taking account of an objective and consistent classification of the different types of subsidies allocated to agriculture.
Secondly, and most importantly, the rejection of the idea of multifunctionality which is the main pillar of the European farm model and the basis for upholding the principle of the specific nature of agriculture.
In fact, if this deliberate reference is not featured, it means that agriculture will be treated as a normal economic activity, whilst there is ever greater pressure from our competitors to end any kind of aid obtained and I stress "any kind" .
Now we all know that without special treatment for agriculture we will not be able to guarantee a minimum of Community preference nor as a result, the primary producing role of agriculture.
If the producing role of agriculture comes to an end, then all its other functions or multifunctions will end with it.
This is why it was a good thing that no agreement was reached in Seattle.
In fact, the agreement that was envisaged was very damaging for agriculture and would have left us at the outset in a weakened negotiating position for the future whereas we are now in a stronger position than we ever have been to make an offensive stand in the new Round.
I would like to make two final comments. Firstly, that it is crucial that the Commission and the Council establish an initiative with developing countries in order to make them our allies.
Secondly, that a joint project with the United States would be extremely useful - as James Elles pointed out - in order to clarify the positions of both parties and to be able then to encourage future understanding.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, you rightly referred to many points and I am grateful to my fellow Members for saying how indebted we are to you for the way in which you led the negotiations in Seattle.
This was done with consummate elegance, and I must say that I was present at many press conferences and I also went to the events organised by the non-governmental organisations.
You also explained the European Union's negotiating position and its strategy with the utmost clarity.
I believe that you made it clear that the European Union is in a position not only to take on a leading role in this and the forthcoming world trade round - and that we do not come here as poker players to secure our own interests - but also that we are prepared to bring the other countries, in particular the developing and least developed countries, on board with us.
This message has been heard, and I am proud to have been part of the delegation in Seattle.
But we should not labour under any illusions.
Two things have become apparent: one is that this accumulation of interests is something that we will continue to see in international negotiations in the future, and I should like to endorse the position of many leading economists who are saying that this was just the beginning.
We will see that this conflict of national and regional interests will be even more pronounced in the future than it has been in the past.
Here, of course, it will be important for us not to line up against each other in blocs - the European Union against the United States, the European Union/the United States against the developing countries, or perhaps also some of the developing countries against others - as we have seen in Seattle and also in other contexts.
In the future, it will be much more important for us to adopt a more sophisticated approach with greater emphasis on preparation, so as to make it clear which interests we actually stand for together in these world trade rounds and why we need them: namely to bring globalisation under control, taming the rank growth which would otherwise proliferate without a world trade round, in order to implement a sound strategy to overcome global problems.
The second phenomenon which we saw - and here too, I do not believe that we should have any illusions - was that the interest which civil society showed in the proceedings in Seattle was not only an interest in the world trade round, but also a demonstration against all those things which people do not like.
This started with the healthcare system in the United States.
I spoke to many people on the streets.
The issues ranged from future Chinese participation in the world trade round to the policies pursued in Cuba, and there were many other issues besides.
Increasingly, politicians are being asked to explain - and to do so in greater depth than they have in the past - what the World Trade Organisation actually does and why it exists.
Of course, it also needs to be reformed and to be made more transparent, but it must also be explained better.
Here I am particularly glad that parliamentarians have now been included; other speakers have referred to this.
The role which will fall to us, as a parliamentary forum, in the world trade round will not be easy.
However, I believe that this is the only way to introduce greater democracy into such a complex bureaucratic machine.
Mr President, the official European Union delegation to Seattle defended the principle of a broad agenda.
It received a mandate to include an extensive range of new areas in the Millennium Round, but in fact it intended to grant the WTO an increased range of responsibilities and powers.
As far as we are concerned, it is not a matter of organising the continued extension of free trade better, but of prioritising the defence of social and environmental rights and of enabling all peoples to be self-determining and to decide their own future.
The delegation would also have us believe that they fought for the countries of the south.
But they did nothing of the sort.
As regards agriculture, the European Union defended only European agro-industry exporters against their North American competitors and the exporters of the Cairns Group.
They did not stand up for the demands of European family-run or group-operated farms or the demands of the farmers of the south.
The demonstrators from all over the world who hindered the Seattle conference represent the first counterattack by the world against the dictatorship of markets and financial profits.
They represent a hope for millions of workers, unemployed people and landless agricultural workers, and for all the victims of this capitalist world order that the WTO wishes to force on us.
The interests of the peoples of the world are antithetical to the development of liberalism.
Mr President, in Seattle we experienced the failure of the WTO Conference, but not of the philosophy behind it.
What do we learn from this?
Firstly, it makes little sense to meet in countries where an election campaign is underway.
Anyone for whom public opinion at home is more important than international agreements should not be surprised when their guests take an invitation as an invitation to go home.
Secondly, it makes little sense to reduce world trade to the concept of fair; the two concepts of fair and socially balanced need to go hand-in-hand.
The international community is tired of protectionism, barriers to trade and being dictated to by a few global players.
Thirdly, on the other hand it does make sense, in spite of all the differences between delegations, to speak with one voice.
I very much welcome the way in which the Commission conducted itself.
Your morning briefings to us Members of Parliament, Commissioner Lamy, were characterised by openness and a willingness to take account of our views.
The result was that this time the EU sat not in the sin bin, but in the mediator's chair.
Fourthly, it makes sense to work more closely with the NGOs.
However, at their day-long symposium in Seattle they hardly had a chance to speak.
I was forced to realise that only a few people are aware of how close Europe is to them.
Whether it was protecting the environment, animals, health or consumers that was being discussed, the dialogue was broken off before it had had chance to start.
The demonstrations paralysed the conference.
What began as a good-natured event degenerated into a state of siege with a high degree of aggression and violence.
Fifthly, it makes sense also to deal with controversial matters.
The taboos of today can be workable compromises tomorrow.
Admittedly the subjects have to be handled sensitively.
The American President's statement that if labour standards were not implemented then sanctions might be imposed was far from helpful.
This reached us conference participants not by chance but by design.
The EU will, however, be capable of winning a majority on the proposal for a permanent WTO and ILO forum, on questions of fundamental rights and on rules of the social market economy.
Despite Seattle, therefore, there are definitely grounds for hope.
Mr President, in Seattle it was not possible to dispel the underlying disquiet with the world trade situation.
Many non-governmental organisations spoke of a victory being won in Seattle.
Many of the ACP countries spoke of a victory being won for their cause in Seattle.
If we are talking in terms of victories then I have only one thing to say: nothing was won in Seattle except time, and as yet it is completely unclear to us how little time we have to devote to this matter.
The issue which we need to address is the underlying disquiet.
The fact that worldwide the environmental and social situation has not taken a turn for the better concerns us.
At the weekend, I attended a symposium with non-governmental organisations, with farmers' representatives from Honduras and employees' representatives from South America.
All of them - all - were extremely unhappy with the situation.
This did serve to show me, however, that what we actually wanted out of this world trade round was not at all clear and transparent either.
Hand on our heart then, if we glance through the newspapers, we realise that even within the European Union our concerns - whether related to environmental policy, social policy or the core labour standards - were portrayed as protectionist; even at home in the European Union we were not able to communicate our concerns, let alone within the group of States of the World Trade Organisation.
One lesson which we should draw from this would be to find answers to the following questions: how do we integrate parliamentarianism with the concerns of the non-governmental organisations?
How do we handle the new sensitive situation in which people are starting to fight back?
How do we make this work?
What platform can we offer for it?
I believe that we have laid the best foundation for successful future cooperation within the European Union, within the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to reiterate what has already been said.
The WTO is a failure in its present form because the WTO is no longer appropriate nor is it transparent.
The first lesson we must draw is in fact the one the NGOs were demanding, i.e. there must be fair trade, not free trade, and in this respect, we must realise that nowadays no international organisation can escape the watchful eye of the citizen and that this is to be expected.
The next deadline is already quite close.
Geneva must not be allowed to go stealthily by.
We, of course, have Marrakech, we, of course, have no obligation to achieve results, but we must remain vigilant in order to ensure that separate agreements on agriculture and services do not allow the things we shut the door on to get in by the back door.
One of the lessons of Seattle, and Commissioner Lamy started to draw conclusions, is that we must find allies.
We do, admittedly, already have a few allies.
The most important ones will no doubt be, as Paul Lannoye emphasised, the ACP countries.
To take European agriculture as an example, it cannot go on saying that it is doing fine, that it is multifunctional, that it is operating in a positive way, that it will henceforth protect its consumers, while at the same time maintaining a selfish attitude with regard to the countries of the south.
In order to be heard, we must find the resources to enable these poorest countries to also have quality food, and quality products.
The whole world today has the right to show solidarity and to have the resources to live better, to get out of this state of international self-centredness.
Mr President, I shall not now echo the compliments paid to Mr Lamy or he will start to blush.
I take it that he is aware that this House is also grateful for the part he played and for the way in which he involved the European Parliament delegation.
With your permission, I shall comment on the consequences of the failure of this ministerial conference.
What conclusions should we draw in terms of continuing the work?
One thing is certain: whether there is another ministerial conference now or whether work has to proceed on a step-by-step basis, never again can another working round be allowed to open without there being a clear agenda which has been put to the vote and agreed.
This must surely be one of the consequences.
If we are now to continue the work solely on the basis of Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, what then are our responsibilities under the agreement?
I am convinced that they are perfectly obvious: Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture contains the condition that, amongst other things, non-trade-related concerns are also to be taken into account.
For this reason, at every step, at all the negotiations, the precautionary principle must be constantly reiterated; it must be put repeatedly on the agenda as if this were a Tibetan prayer wheel.
Each of the speakers here keeps repeating the words: consumer protection, precautionary principle and environment policy, but then we also need to make this clear.
We also need to make it clear that environmental standards and food safety are often hotly disputed here, that it is only with difficulty that we achieve this here in the European Union, that the legislation is controversial, and that if we have adopted it, it is because of our responsibility to the people of the European Union - to whom we are accountable as elected parliamentarians - and not for reasons of tactical protectionism.
We also need to make this clear.
From now on, it must go without saying that extending individual parts of the WTO rules or overhauling them completely can only be possible once this institution is at long last democratic, once it is transparent and once it is less authoritarian.
Perhaps the failure of this first WTO Ministerial Conference is also a huge blessing in disguise because the arrogance and lack of democracy has been exposed and now we have an opportunity to change it.
The time is right to do so!
Mr President, we should not be too worried about allowing a Commissioner to bask in the glory of congratulations from the European Parliament.
It is a rare occasion so he should enjoy it.
As he suggests, we should be looking forward rather than backward now.
We should welcome talk of modernisation and reform of the WTO and the recognition that we need seriously to modify the perception that is held elsewhere of the protectionist stance of the industrialised world.
A key objective for us must be for all 135 members of the WTO to have a part to play in that process of reform as well as what goes on afterwards.
I can confirm that 30 members did not have the capacity or the ability to go to Seattle.
My abiding memory was of the sense of exclusion felt by developing countries.
They all remained adamant throughout that there was a great deal of post-Uruguay Round unfinished business - on textiles and agriculture in particular - that needed to be addressed.
I was heartened by the fact that three-quarters of the WTO members could no longer be ignored.
It was they who were able to call a halt.
Should we be surprised that they wanted to do that on the grounds that they have only 0.4% of the share of world trade?
There are choices: either we allow globalisation to roll on without guidance or we rein it in to ensure that it brings benefits to all.
We have an opportunity to address the concerns raised in Seattle.
That means identifying the problems and then acting.
Of course, we did have the difficulty of the 135-page draft you took with you to Seattle, upon which you have no broad agreement, so it was hardly surprising that difficulties were encountered.
At the end of the week, the developing countries were simply not prepared to accept a "done deal" made in secret rooms by the big players.
Of course we recognise the fact that we need a rules-based system to regulate world trade but let us see more openness, let us see more and better ways of achieving and building global consensus.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank all the men and women among you who gave me their support both during the Conference and today.
I am particularly appreciative of this, since I think it is a method and style of working rather than personality which is involved, and this method of working is one that will prove useful in future.
In any case, the conclusion that I draw is that this is the way forward.
I shall now make a few comments about the essential points.
Firstly, as many of you have said, this failure at Seattle was probably a source of disappointment primarily to developing countries.
If we acknowledge this fact, which I believe is now proven, looking back on it a week later, it is thus once the liberalisation of trade has been decided, managed and brought under control, that developing countries see the value it has for them, and no doubt they consider it better for them than the status quo with the development of bilateral relations which do not work in their favour.
I believe that this is worth thinking about for the future, and is certainly something that we need to think about.
My second comment concerns the institutional business of the WTO.
I do not belong to that group of people which believes that this is where the main problem lies.
I do, however, believe that part of the problem lies here.
We should not be reinventing the wheel, admittedly, but what use is it if it has stopped turning properly?
Let us at least take action to get the wheel turning again, or to adjust the load it is carrying.
I think that this is the main thing, while taking account, as I believe the Commission is doing, of the extreme difficulties in getting 135 contractual parties to agree on an institutional system which is different to that which currently exists.
A third comment on the environment.
I have listened to and taken in what you have said.
Let us simply be aware that, in this area, we have considerable ambitions in relation to those of the other partners around the WTO table.
Everyone can understand why developing countries may have a less ambitious environmental agenda to our own.
But that the United States should have an environmental agenda less ambitious than our own, as is the case, is something which definitely presents us with a more difficult problem, for if neither developing countries nor the Americans agree with our agenda, we shall then have great difficulty in moving it forward.
I believe that is something worth thinking about.
I stick to our credo, the Council conclusions, and the mandate which I was given.
We must still, however, be quite aware that all this will not prove easy and that it will be necessary, at some point, either to be more convincing or to be more active.
I now come to my fourth and penultimate comment.
Like many of you, I believe that it is now towards developing countries that we should direct our efforts to convince and our ability to form alliances.
This will require persuasion, political effort and the presentation of arguments. Without doubt, it will also require some additional work which we shall have to think about.
I am not currently in a position right to outline this support, but it is certain that these additional efforts will have to involve the increased opening up of our markets to developing countries.
I believe it is not worth discussing this at length until the details are clearer, but I know too that as soon as the details do become clearer then enormous problems will arise.
We shall have to think about this, and, when the time comes, present our proposals on the subject to the Council and Parliament.
In concluding, I shall mention the issue of transparency.
Yes, Seattle was a transparent event.
One might reflect at length as to whether the fact that intense media activity, as there was at Seattle, always coincides with active transparency.
Personally, I must tell you that just occasionally I feel some doubt and a little unease as to this coincidence, which we all too often try to perceive, between a massive media presence and active transparency.
Leaving that aside, in Seattle the WTO was, nonetheless, subjected to an ordeal of transparency for which it was obviously not prepared.
If that was the case then so much the better.
What we have to say regarding liberalisation, globalisation, our own concept of it and the question as to whether it is good or bad for the citizens you represent and to whom we are accountable, well, that is so much the better.
This debate is one that I am happy to see take place in public.
I think, as a number of you have said, that Europe has a stake in this debate since, as far as it is concerned and in this area, it is accustomed to it: why not share the benefit of our experience?
(Loud applause)
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
I have received six motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 p.m.
The debate is closed.
Annual Report of the Court of Auditors
The next item is the presentation of the Annual Report of the Court of Auditors.
Mr President, I should first like to thank President Karlsson for introducing the 1998 Annual Report.
We Members of the European Parliament have now been able to take an initial look at the report, which is almost 500 pages long, after having been alarmed by premature press reports.
Not knowing the content of the Court of Auditors' report, we were unable either to confirm or to deny these reports.
The issue of the Court of Auditors providing Parliament with information in good time is one which the two institutions need to resolve as a matter of urgency.
President Karlsson, I am sure that you agree with this request and that for your part you will see to it that Parliament - in its capacity as the people's representative and as the control authority - is given information first, before the results of the Court's audit reach the press.
I also refer to the report of my colleague, Mr Wynn, which the European Parliament adopted in spring 1998.
Since then, I hear that the Court has identified the office in its house from which the report - and possibly also the confidential preliminary report - was clearly leaked.
There has also been a suspension.
In this case, the pressure exerted by the European Parliament to find out where the leaks had occurred has led to success.
The audit report on the table will not only provide us with a basis for our forthcoming work on the 1998 discharge; it will also serve as an important document for reforming the administrative structures in the Commission and will be used constructively to bring about the necessary improvements.
We now have the opportunity in this Parliament to monitor this significant process of reform in the Commission constructively, but critically.
Once again, the Court criticises the unacceptably high incidence of errors in budgetary management in 1998.
It refuses to confirm the legality and regularity of the Commission's accounts and thus - for the fifth time in succession - does not give its statement of assurance.
This is very serious.
On examining the report, it is striking that once again cases of mismanagement, irregularities and fraud are described, and that they occur in nearly all of the areas investigated, on both the revenue and expenditure sides.
Every year evasion of duties and VAT payments causes significant losses to the Community budget.
There are serious shortcomings in the Member States' management and control systems here.
We ask, when does the Commission finally intend to remind the Member States of their duty? And, do the Member States not realise that by allowing funds to decline, they are cutting off their nose to spite their face?
In the agricultural sector, the situation remains disturbing.
Overall, it is here that the most serious cases of incorrect utilisation of funds are found.
Here too, the Court refers to the Member States' carelessness.
In the important sector of research and development, mismanagement and a lack of transparency associated with advance payments and the final account caused losses.
Over 50% of payments are said to be incorrect, with around two thirds even containing serious errors.
The same applies to the Structural Funds.
Let us get down to work, together with the Court of Auditors and the Commission.
In the on-going enlargement process this is absolutely essential!
Mr President, I welcome the fact that at last, we are discussing this report.
I would condemn the other groups for not allowing us to discuss this in November: That was a wrong decision.
It was outrageous that we did not allow the Court to have a press conference.
We lost the opportunity of an important public platform.
I was also extremely disappointed that the President of the Court of Auditors did not remain in Brussels earlier this month.
The report proves beyond all doubt that the reform process is long overdue.
We need radical reforms if we are to see improvement of a very serious situation.
This is the fifth time the Commission has not given a statement of assurance and it is clear that the Commission needs to understand that it is engaged in reform and it will be judged not by its words and its reports, but by its actions.
It is clear that in efforts to reform itself, the Commission needs to concentrate not on where the money is spent but the extent to which policy goals are met, and that with a minimum cost.
As Mr Karlsson said, we need to tackle the spending culture.
That means we need clear, precise and measurable goals from the Commission.
In my own country of Wales we receive significant money from the structural funds, but the line between creating a job and safeguarding a job is unclear and therefore it is difficult for us to assess how effective those structural funds have been.
The Commission needs to make fundamental improvements to its own internal control mechanisms.
One of the main problems, highlighted again, is that of passing the buck.
Nobody is taking responsibility and the responsibility for spending money well is shared between too many people.
That clearly needs to be reformed.
We expect to see rigorous new management and control systems in the forthcoming reform.
In particular, we need to see a reform of the Financial Regulation.
But let us not forget that over 85% of the money that comes from the EU budget is spent within the Member States and they need to put their own house in order.
Human resources is also an issue which clearly needs to be addressed.
This report has vindicated the forced resignation of a sloppy, slapdash Commission and revealed a catalogue of irresponsibility by Member States who are prepared to criticise but not act on fraud and irregularities.
The new Commission is heading in the right direction and we hope that we will see an end to these kinds of reports.
We can put them behind us once we see an improvement in terms of the reform process.
I should like to finish by putting a clear question to Mr Karlsson: does he personally think there is anything specific in the 1998 report which should stop Parliament from granting discharge?
Mr President, Mr Karlsson, this Annual Report demonstrates that the supervision of EU expenditure still leaves a great deal to be desired.
To a large extent, the problem lies with the Member States, but the Commission should not hide behind this fact.
The Court of Auditors is right to point out that the Commission must ensure that any shortcomings on the part of the Member States are properly dealt with.
What is more, the Commission' s housekeeping has a lot to answer for too.
It is most revealing that the highest percentage of material incidences of error has been detected within the internal management department. After all, it is the Commission itself that has exclusive responsibility for financial management within this department.
The Annual Report underlines once again that we must work out, in structural terms, what the added value of the various European programmes amounts to.
Up until now, the Commission has focused too heavily on high levels of expenditure.
There has been little or no testing of effectiveness on the basis of clearly measurable policy objectives.
The Commission must also keep a closer eye on whether individual projects abide by general community objectives.
Accordingly, we must call an immediate halt to financing from structural funds projects that are at odds with objectives relating to environmental protection.
The Court of Auditors is right to put its finger on this serious problem.
Finally, the whole state of affairs with regard to the leaking of the draft report raises questions as to the independence of the Court of Auditors.
It is right that the Commission should be allowed to inspect the Annual Report before publication so as to correct any factual errors beforehand. But did the Commission confine itself to this?
Or is it true that the Court of Auditors toned down the report under pressure from the Commission?
In order to clear this up, the European Parliament ought, in the process of the discharge procedure, to analyse the differences between the draft report and the definitive report in detail and assess them on their merits.
Mr President, although I welcome the Court of Auditors' report, which is extremely useful and which this Chamber should support, because in so doing, we will be supporting Europe as a whole, I cannot avoid mentioning the unease caused by the fact that some of the media have recently leaked partial and biased versions of the report. Mr Karlsson, this is something that apart from causing our citizens, officials and institutions unnecessary harm, gives the impression that the Court of Auditors is a political body that is accountable to the electors through public opinion.
These leaks, Mr Karlsson, do not occur in the great majority of the Courts of Auditors in the Member States or in the European regions.
Therefore, it should not be impossible for you to prevent them either.
It shows a lack of respect for this House and for yourselves, because it shows that those whose duty it is to monitor are not actually monitoring the process itself.
Therefore, Mr Karlsson, if these leaks occur again, my group will demand a reform that goes beyond merely postponing this debate.
Secondly, I would like to say that the problem of the irregularities and of the way the budget has been misused is not a geographical problem, but one that cuts across all divisions.
Here there is no North, South, East or West. There are no rich countries or poor countries.
What we have here is simply a problem of the inadequacy and the misinterpretation of national and Community legislation.
I would like the countries who bear the burden of the effort towards internal economic and social cohesion not to use this kind of argument as, of those countries, it is the countries that receive funds from the European Union that have the most to gain from the effectiveness of this effort.
Finally, I would like to stress the fact that the Commission still intends - as the report that you have presented to us states - to use the degree of use of the financial credits allocated in the annual budget as the main gauge of the success of their financial management.
What the Commission must in fact do is to measure its success by the degree to which it manages to achieve the objectives that it has been given, at the lowest cost.
This change of philosophy is what, by supporting the report that you have presented, we demand of the reform that President Prodi promised this Parliament he would carry out.
Mr President, the 1998 report of the Court of Auditors, which has been debated all over Europe except - until today - in this House, clearly demonstrates the need for the Commission and Member States to redouble their efforts in the fight against fraud.
Both have a duty to ensure that tax-payers' money is well spent.
If we are to keep the people's trust and win their support for the ambitious plans outlined at Helsinki this weekend, three steps are essential.
First, Member States themselves must do more to detect fraud.
Cooperation between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts must be strengthened, if necessary by means of legislation.
Second, as Mr Karlsson just made very clear, the Commission's financial management must be improved.
The Commission has announced a programme of reforms.
If these are to be successful they must be radical, comprehensive and based on a very clear timetable.
Third, Parliament must put its own house in order.
We can only be credible as the people's watchdog if the recommendations of the Court of Auditors which relate to this institution are implemented without delay.
Parliament must do everything within its powers to demonstrate that it is serious about eliminating waste.
It is for this very reason that, like many of my colleagues, I shall not be attending tomorrow's opening ceremony of this expensive and obviously flawed building that nobody asked for.
Mr President, for us Socialists, the Court of Auditors is basic to the European Union. That may be seen from the large number of Socialists who are speaking here today.
It is also a very important tool which citizens have for scrutinising and supervising the European Union' s activities and holding it accountable.
As has been said here on a number of occasions, that is also why we were irritated by the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors was not previously able to appear here before Parliament.
At the same time as the annual report of the Court of Auditors was being presented, an incident occurred at the Commission' s official office in Stockholm.
It emerged that inadmissible wage payments had been made there.
One wonders how it is going to be possible to keep the whole of the European Union in order if a small office of 20 people cannot be kept in check.
That is where the Court of Auditors comes in.
I should like to say that how this small office and the way in which it has carried out its duties and managed its finances is to be dealt with will be a test of the European Union' s credibility in this context, that is to say of its openness and accountability.
I should like to ask the President of the Court of Auditors, who has visited Stockholm, what impressions he has obtained of the incident there and what measures might be expected to be taken.
Mr President, the Court of Auditors' conclusions resemble those we have seen in many recent years.
It is not possible for them to come up with a positive opinion.
There is a need for the Member States to take greater responsibility.
They administer approximately 80% of the budget and they do not do it particularly well.
I am naturally pleased that Denmark is not singled out for attack this year.
I am a little surprised, however, that the Court of Auditors should again have volunteered a remark about the feta issue.
In fact, that matter was closed a long time ago.
In February, Mr Kinnock will be submitting a proposal for a reform of the Commission.
This is perhaps one of the things we are to be tackling.
One of the most important changes concerns the staff culture.
It happens too rarely that employees are suspended or fired if they are incompetent or corrupt.
There does exist the opportunity to dismiss incompetent employees on the basis of Article 52 of the staff regulations.
This Article ought to be made use of, and in general it never is.
This practice ought therefore to be changed.
If we are to stamp out irregularities and fraud, we need to change the staff culture and the tendency for people' s being able to get away with murder if they have the right friends to cover for them.
We should be cleaning up our act after previous scandals.
What signals are being sent out to future leaders of the Commission if those responsible for the scandals can just carry on in good jobs?
In this way, we shall never see a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors.
We need to put our house in order following the mistakes of the past, both internally within the Commission and also in the Member States.
Mr President, it is also an historic day today in so far as we for once witnessed one of our colleagues seeing the light, namely Mr Dell' Alba.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, to use taxpayers' money in accordance with clear political priorities and in accordance with principles of economy and efficiency are objectives which all those who deal with a public budget should be determined to achieve, and these are the objectives which the new Commission is determined to achieve.
The Court of Auditors has the task of checking to see whether these objectives are met; it has the task of ascertaining whether public funds are being managed in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation, and it tells the Commission what changes need to be made to ensure proper financial management.
In its report on the 1998 financial year, the Court of Auditors has explained in how many areas urgent changes need to be made.
And Mr Bösch, I am not aware of any statement by the new Commission saying that we had found it reassuring that once again the statement of assurance could not be made.
On the contrary, we said that it is disturbing - as has also been stressed here - that for the fifth time the regularity of the payments effected could not be confirmed.
That is why the Commission will, of course, also be setting about implementing these changes with vigour.
In some areas, changes have already been put in train by the old Commission; this is the case with the Structural Funds, for example.
For the new aid period there will be new rules governing the financial steps which the Commission can take if the provisions under which grants are awarded and implemented are infringed.
President Karlsson emphasised in his speech that wide-ranging reforms are necessary in order to achieve better financial management.
I am, therefore, very pleased that the Commission is resolutely planning a process of reform and is committed to pursuing it.
I should like to mention three components of the reform, which are of great significance for financial management.
The first is activity-based budgeting.
In the future, beginning with the 2001 budget, it is intended that when the EU budget is drawn up, it should more closely reflect political priorities than has been the case in the past, and that the decisions on priorities should not only affect operating appropriations but also the required staff appropriations, so that more staff are deployed in the areas of political priority.
The second key aspect of the reform is strengthening the financial responsibility of all the departments which administer EU funds.
The Commission will adopt the approach which has long since been advocated by Parliament, which Mr Karlsson has also outlined once again just now and which I also announced in my written answers to parliamentary questions in August. This consists of devolving responsibility for financial control to the departments in charge of the spending programmes, thus decentralising and at the same time increasing the level of financial responsibility in the administrative departments which effect the expenditure.
The third important component is amending the Financial Regulation.
A new, extensively amended version is required and work on this is underway.
It will take account of very many of the Court of Auditors' criticisms, including, for example, the issue of recording advance payments and final payments separately in the accounts.
It will be an important step towards greater transparency across the accounting system.
I should also like briefly to comment on the premature publication of the Court of Auditors' report and the anger felt about this in Parliament.
I think that we should reflect together on the timetable for publication and the debate in Parliament.
In my opinion, it is right for there to be an interval of time between publication and the debate here in this House, so that all Members are able to familiarise themselves with the full report beforehand.
I think it is a matter of urgency to initiate a consultation procedure here so that a better solution can be found.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, it is my intention to go through the Court of Auditors' report sector by sector with the departments, and, above all, with the Member States, and to find out why the mistakes were made in the first place.
Who ought to have acted differently?
What instruments are available to avoid mistakes of this kind being made in the future, and how quickly can improvements be achieved?
A systematic follow-up of this kind is essential.
I will do my utmost to implement this kind of systematic follow-up and I am very pleased that the Commission has decided - as part of its reform package on financial management - to formalise the structure of this systematic follow-up, so that in the future the observations of the Court of Auditors really can be used to improve financial management, and I would ask the European Parliament to support this comprehensive project of reform.
Mr President, I shall try to comment on all the interesting contributions to this debate.
Some have commented that Parliament must be the first to receive the material the Court produces, be it our annual report or the special reports we produce throughout the year.
Let me make an unequivocal and clear statement that this is absolutely the rule we shall obey, that this Assembly will be the first to receive our reports.
If I may add one thing immediately to the point made by Mr Pomés Ruiz: I entirely agree with him that you must make very special requirements of a Court of Auditors, that it must be like Caesar's wife.
But what has happened in this case is that the Court has found out who was guilty of leaking the draft annual report to the press, and has taken the appropriate measures.
All of us know that this is not the only time that information on classified material has been passed on.
What has happened hitherto is that the Court has established this.
I hope we can continue to do the same in every case but I would not deny, as President of the Court of Auditors, that special demands could be put on us as a result.
Many speakers have pointed out the responsibility of Member States.
I can only confirm that this is a positive response to the challenge of Member States' willingness to fight fraud, to put their house in order, to enhance control systems, a challenge that we have pointed out in the annual report may be even greater this year, while not for one minute diminishing the role and the responsibility of the Commission in this context.
The Commission must, at the same time, dare to impose clear demands and requirements on the Member States' control systems.
Ms Morgan asked me a clear-cut question: is there something specific in this annual report that should make Parliament not grant discharge?
Let me underline what the Court's role is in this context: it is to give you all the material we find it appropriate and advisable to put forward, and leave it to you to make the political decision on discharge.
I will only say that the question that needs to be asked is whether the Commission has done everything in its power to remedy the shortcomings that have been pointed out.
I would certainly not make any specific detailed remark on any one point.
It is the overall material that has been produced both in this annual reports and in the special report we have produced, and will produce, that should be the basis for Parliament's decision on this point.
I would underline what Mrs van der Laan pointed out concerning fraud in the Union, and would point out that, judging from press reports about fraud in general and attacks on public budgets, you would think the European budget was more vulnerable than any.
This is, of course, not true.
What has been stated many times is that this is a problem that all countries, both in their regional and national budgets, have to fight.
May I take this opportunity to point out that the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato and myself addressed jointly a contact committee of all the presidents of Member States' national audit offices and the Court of Auditors, just to point out to these key people that fighting fraud in European funds is also a national task.
This is a clear example of Parliament and the Court of Auditors working to draw this to the attention of the Member States.
I agree with Mr Staes that this is no bedtime reading and I was very worried when they started to put out the lights, but because of Mr Dell'Alba's courageous intervention this was stopped.
I would also stress that the work undertaken in constructing OLAF has to be continued.
In the Court's special report on the UCLAF activities we have pointed to a number of proposals that we think both Parliament and Member States should undertake, concerning a European prosecutor and other measures to continue the fight against fraud.
To Mrs Eriksson I would say that it has been customary for me to speak English.
This is the first time I have spoken in Parliament.
I am making my maiden speech, just like Mr van Hulten.
My speaking English has to do with the fact that we have English and French as working languages.
When I was to begin this speech, I was far too nervous to dare to express myself in the language of honour and chivalry.
I nonetheless believe that I should have managed if I had really put my mind to it.
I think that, following a habit already established in the Budgetary Control Committee, I will stick to my second language and I hope that you will forgive me for this national treason.
Mr Bösch, I agree with you and I think everybody agrees with you that there are special requirements to be placed on those parts of the budget which are managed by the Commission itself.
I have already underlined that it is important that the Commission should also shoulder its responsibility concerning the Member States; but when it comes to internal policies, external aid and personnel administration, we can put clearer demands on the Commission and we can also deal with it differently when it comes to the statement of assurance, something which we have started to do and will continue to do.
I congratulate Mr van Hulten on his first speech here.
I agree with him as regards the need in our work to reassure tax-payers that their money is being spent well and I also underline, as Mrs van der Laan has done, the need for Member States also to fight fraud.
Mr Schori asked me about my conclusions, or the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, concerning events in the Stockholm representation of the Commission.
I have two reflections to make; one being that this shows that the only way to cope with problems of this kind is to have functioning internal control systems.
There has to be, whenever expenditure of European money is concerned, an internal control system which is efficient and reliable so that the external controller can ascertain whether systems function and not go through every detail of administration.
The other is that I have also publicly stated that this is a test case for the Commission's willingness to reform its disciplinary procedures, of which we are very critical and which I know that the Commission also intends to do something about.
I have already pointed out in my first speech the same problem that Mr Blak brought up - that staff administration has to be improved.
As for Mrs Eriksson, who asked me why we do not audit the European Investment Fund, we asked the Council when it was established whether we should do so and the reply was "no" and that is why.
I do not agree with the Council but it is the Council that decides.
Finally, I will make a general comment on what Mrs Schreyer pointed out in her speech.
As you can hear, the attitude of the Commission to this annual report is to take it to its heart and to start embarking upon the reform programme we are discussing today.
Let me say, on behalf of the European Court of Auditors, that we hope that we can, in a climate of dialogue and openness, work together to see to it that this new Commission can carry out the reform that we are eagerly looking forward to.
Thank you very much, Mr Karlsson, President of the Court of Auditors.
The debate is closed.
(The sitting was suspended at 8.20 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
Socrates (second phase)
The next item is the report (A5-0097/1999) by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision establishing the second phase of the Community action programme in the field of education, 'Socrates' (C5-0267/1999 - 1998/0195(COD)).
Mr President, of course I should not like to confine my comments to the work of the Conciliation Committee, because this would surely not go far enough.
I think that we should also use this second reading once again to hold a general debate on education in the Europe of the future.
At the end I will come back to the outcome of the conciliation procedure.
The issue of education in the Europe of the future is also the issue of the future of Europe itself.
This is actually a fact which the members of the Council ought finally to take on board.
Europe can only continue to grow together if the people of Europe accept this process and are prepared to play an active part in it.
This is particularly important in the light of the enlargement of the EU towards which we are working.
Our hopes are centred first and foremost on the young generation in our countries.
They are the ones who will shape the future of Europe.
That is why we need to win over young people to the European project.
That is why we need to meet them, at least to some extent, where they already are in terms of their present knowledge and expectations.
Many of them think in much more global terms and often have considerably more personal experience of being abroad than we had when we were young.
But, of course, there are many others who lack this personal experience, who - like their parents - are frightened of this large Europe because they do not understand it, and who have never had the opportunity to spend time with people from other countries.
This is why I believe that the European education policy is one of the key tasks within the European Union.
As more aspects of European society become intertwined, communication and therefore mastering foreign languages will become increasingly important.
Economic integration owing to the internal market makes mobility a key factor.
Closer integration inevitably forces us to confront different views.
The pluralism of cultures and world views means, however, that greater mutual understanding and thus more knowledge about others is required, which means that information needs to be exchanged.
Imparting all this knowledge and experience needs to start early on.
That is how the first comprehensive European programme for cooperation in all spheres of education came about in 1995; it was called Socrates.
Since then, I have been the rapporteur and am glad that this programme has been really extremely successful.
Now we are launching the Socrates II programme for 2000 to 2007.
This programme consists, firstly, of the opportunities offered to schools under Comenius, which encourages school classes from different countries throughout Europe to work together on projects.
Its second part is Erasmus, which addresses student mobility, and then the third component - called Gruntvig - is adult education, an initiative which has finally led to progress being made in an area where action had been necessary in the European Union for some considerable time.
Adult education became part of the Socrates I programme in 1995 by a circuitous route, through an amendment which I tabled. In the course of the year, this led to people throughout Europe developing a desire for adult education and lifelong learning and we believe that the response to this in the shape of the Gruntvig part of Socrates is the right response.
I am proud that we have achieved this.
It is precisely this incorporation of Gruntvig in the Socrates programme which actually shows how Europe works.
This was an idea which had always had a foothold in the northern countries - in Austria, in the Scandinavian countries, in Germany; in England too the concept of adult education has always existed - but in the southern countries it had not taken root to such an extent.
In Europe we managed to establish this everywhere.
I am proud of this.
That is why I believe that here too, we have achieved something important precisely for the next seven years.
I now come to the subject which concerns us all, namely the result of the Conciliation Committee's deliberations.
In terms of content, we have achieved all that we set out to achieve.
I should like very much to welcome the fact that the Council has agreed that when we award mobility grants we can at long last, consider the possibility of only giving them to those who really need them, so that those who might not otherwise be able to take part for financial reasons can perhaps also take part after all, because the money is made available to them in this way.
I also welcome the fact that the Council has agreed to step up support for learning our neighbours' languages.
I very much regret that the Council was not in a position to join us in including the term "European educational area".
They hummed and hawed as if this European educational area did not yet exist.
It does exist, but in the end for the sake of keeping the peace we gave in, so that there will continue to be a European dimension in education.
As far as the budget is concerned, Mr President - you were there, but I must repeat this - I am not happy.
We wanted EUR 2.5 billion, which is the amount which we would have required for this major undertaking.
Unfortunately, we only obtained EUR 1.85 billion, but with an assurance that a review clause would be incorporated after two years.
I believe that we can be satisfied with this.
I hope that this programme is just as successful as Socrates I.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Parliament and the Commission for having brought the conciliation to a successful conclusion.
I do not, however, wish to congratulate the Council because I feel that there has been no response from the Council in terms of the generosity needed for future programmes.
Therefore, I would like to congratulate the two main protagonists though because they have furthermore ensured that everything will function normally in January and the budgets are ready for the start of the meetings.
In this context however, I would like to say a few words which should be included in the Minutes rather than disappear into thin air.
I would like to talk about a problem that I observed throughout the negotiation: that of the difficult, complex and rather vague concept of culture and education that most of the European Union' s institutions seem to hold.
I shall highlight some of the contradictions.
Strangely, the educational and cultural programmes tend to be fully agreed on, to be voted for most enthusiastically by all parties, and yet, these are, nevertheless, the programmes that receive the worst treatment in budgetary terms.
This is the first contradiction.
On the other hand, the cultural programmes, and specifically "Socrates" , are the ones that benefit the most people and, moreover, involve few intermediaries.
"Socrates" directly reaches those who gain from it.
We are not talking about lobbies here, but about people who are benefiting from something that is by no means a subsidy, but a life-long investment.
On the other hand, this is a budget that accumulates and attracts broad cooperation from all countries.
For the "Socrates" programme for example, the European Union only pays 10% in my country, Spain.
The rest is made up by the institutions, the Spanish State and the families themselves.
We can see then that there is an 80% increase in all educational programmes in general.
What do I mean by this?
Simply that we have wasted a great deal of money on education.
If the Council had been more generous, many institutions and individuals would have put money on the table.
I would like to say something else that I think is important: education cannot be guided by the principle of subsidiarity alone.
Does the exchange of educational methods affect the principle of subsidiarity?
Can getting to know another country, understanding it and experiencing it be considered an attack on the principle of subsidiarity?
Countries will never be able to implement the Socrates programme on their own.
This is a programme that transcends and surpasses the stature of individual nations.
That is its greatness, its power and its strength, and that is why everyone believes in it to the extent that we can speak of thousands of good results.
Above all though, there is one result that must never be forgotten: the capability for cohesion and unity that this programme gives us.
Mr President, I think that we have already heard much about the opportunities and possibilities which the Socrates programme will offer us over the next seven years.
I do not believe, however, that we have fully discharged our responsibilities here for the near future.
Precisely the opposite is true.
Now the countries, but also the European Union, are asked to implement this programme so that we can see, above all, how it develops over the next two to two and a half years and so that we can make adjustments to it and alter or reassess various aspects where it proves to be necessary.
I am convinced that it provides an opportunity for young people in Europe and that it is proof that Europe must not only be a Europe of figures and economics, but that education and culture actually form the foundation stone on the basis of which we understand each other and regions - as diverse as their cultures are - complement each other and are tolerant of any differences between them.
In turn, this teaches us to show solidarity with people who are different, who are less well-off and who, above all, have a harder time of it than we do.
I should like to call on all those who have the opportunity to take advantage of the Socrates programme, who are able to use educational opportunities, who are going to be able to continue their education in the future, who contribute to Europe growing together, also to recognise in the course of their education that we are setting a fast pace at the moment in our process of development and in all our programmes, that there are those who cannot match this pace, and that we should take them by the hand and take them with us because quality, standards and education also require us not to sideline those who are weaker than ourselves.
Mr President, Commissioner, the future belongs to the young.
This well-known [Dutch] expression perfectly embodies the spirit of the Socrates programme.
Europe is the future and in order to achieve this future, we need the young.
They need to get to know each other and gain an understanding of each other' s cultures and how better can this be achieved than by studying together, having fun together and by learning each other' s languages. In this way, we can achieve more understanding and solidarity among the young within the European Union.
Mr President, this is important now but this will certainly be important in the future too, with a view to enlargement.
I would therefore like to touch upon two additional aspects which have been highlighted in a conciliation.
Firstly, I am delighted that we have finally managed to convince the Council of the fact that more funding should be made available for such an important and successful programme.
This is mainly thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, who I could not praise enough for her commitment and tenacity, in particular, and also you, of course, Mrs Reding, for the intelligent and frank remarks you contributed.
It was not easy to make the Council see that, in view of the pending enlargement, this programme will be used a great deal more.
But governing is all about anticipation and this means that, if necessary, the programme should be able to be adapted sooner if more countries would like to take part in it.
I would hate to exclude the young from candidate countries.
Secondly, I am pleased that the selection procedures for the projects too have been somewhat simplified, but there is more room for improvement.
I hear many complaints about the fact that the application procedure is both complicated and lengthy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like firstly to thank all those who have fought so hard.
My personal thanks go in particular to Mrs Pack, who has been the driving force behind the fight for our cause in the Conciliation Committee.
In Germany we have a proverb which says that you live and learn.
I am glad that a few years ago this concept was enshrined in the policy: now we call it lifelong learning.
The importance of education, whether it be quantitative or qualitative, general or subject-specific, is sufficiently well known to us all.
We are also now laying the foundation stones for the future of Europe.
In my opinion, Socrates is one of the most important building blocks.
I only need to mention mobility and European educational policy.
With your permission, I will draw your attention to one module which caters for cultural diversity: Action 4 or "Lingua".
Here, I should like to place particular emphasis on less widely spoken and less widely taught languages.
I call on the Council to take on this responsibility and not to confine its support for attractive policies of culture or lifelong learning to election campaigns, but to assume full responsibility for this task.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that we need to congratulate Mrs Pack, the rapporteur, for her work on the second stage of the Socrates programme.
I would also like to thank the whole of the European Parliament delegation which, with a lot of patience and determination, secured an increase in the financial provision of at least EUR 300 million.
This is a valuable resource for our young people, who have great confidence in the educational and training potential of this programme.
I will take this opportunity though, to remind the House that whether or not Socrates will be completely successful depends largely on the publicity this programme will be given within the individual Member States and the speed of the selection process.
Indeed, many European young people often complain of the difficulty of finding timely information on the programmes that concern them.
More widespread information and less red tape will certainly ensure real equal opportunities and more democratic access to the programme.
In this way, young people, above all, those least well-off and most disadvantaged will be able to consider Socrates as a chance for integration, for cultural enrichment and professional training, but above all, as a chance to have personal experiences and life experiences, in order to gain the flexibility and open-mindedness necessary to address, in the best way, employment challenges in the world of work: this is why SOCRATES is an important investment for the young people of Europe.
Mr President, the results achieved by the Socrates programme are indeed impressive.
In all, 500 000 students have spent time studying in another Member State as part of their course.
110 000 young people have taken part in exchanges.
Overall, 1 500 universities and over 10 000 schools throughout the European Union have participated in this programme over the last four years.
Parliament and the Commission wanted to build on this success for the years 2000 to 2007.
The younger generation should have the opportunity not only to continue being involved in Europe but to become more involved.
Above all though, young people in the applicant countries should have the opportunity to take part in the new programme on an equal footing from the very beginning.
It is certainly hard to understand why the Council - which extended such a warm invitation a few days ago in Helsinki - denied the young people of Europe the funding which we considered necessary in the Conciliation Committee.
That is why my particular thanks go to the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, and Commissioner Reding, who together with the Conciliation Committee have squeezed EUR 300 million out of the Council.
I think that the Council can be sure that over the next few years the Commission and Parliament will continue to fight for young people in this way so as to obtain sufficient funds.
Can I first of all thank and congratulate Mrs Pack for leading us through this process, and also the Commission for standing by in what was a hard-fought, long and, in Parliament's view, a responsible negotiation, following which we are very happy to vote for the programme.
We all agree that Socrates I has provided us with a vital building block in the lives of young Europeans.
I have seen young people in areas of particular social exclusion in my own Member State, who did not know very much about the south-east of England, let alone the south-east of France or Spain, blossom and come forth in terms in confidence and educational capacity as a result of their interactions with other students from other Member States.
In terms of the ability of the programme to spearhead the values of Parliament, it is a tremendous success. Socrates is vital to the expansion of the educational capacity of our young people, not only in terms of their cultural capacity but in terms of their economic foundation as well.
We have seen that it is very much at the frontline when it comes to providing a future for a solid European Union.
We will benefit from the experience of Socrates I and the new coherent and comprehensive approach that we will see in Socrates II.
However, our job does not finish there.
In the next few years we have a vital role to play in examining the financial framework and the framework with a view to the enlargement, because that is when we will see the strains on Socrates II and its ability to deal with a new enlarged European Union.
We must provide for those incoming Member States the tremendous opportunities it is currently providing for our students.
Mr President, Socrates II has now arrived, even though it cost a certain amount of effort.
Negotiating with the Council into the early hours of the morning is not always too exciting, but it was worth it this time.
Throughout the process, Mrs Pack has done a lot of good work, and I want to take the opportunity to thank her, just as I want to thank Commissioner Reding for her collaboration.
We have obtained a good Socrates programme containing some sensible initiatives which take account of the fact that the EU is on the brink of enlargement.
As a Dane, I cannot help but comment, in particular, on the Grundtvig initiative.
In Denmark, we have had a distinguished tradition of lifelong learning since the nineteenth century, and it is precisely the poet, priest and co-author of the Danish constitution, N.F.S. Grundtvig, who stands out as one of the founders of the entire folk high school movement in Denmark, a movement which helped educate ordinary people at a time when this was unusual.
The Danish folk high schools also play an important role in offering education to people of all ages.
It is good that we have got ourselves a scheme designed to give a boost to lifelong learning.
It is no secret that, when we insisted to the bitter end in Parliament that the Directive should include a review clause, this was in order to ensure that the programme would also be able to function properly following any enlargement of the European Union.
Mr President, all I can do is warmly recommend people to vote in favour of this report.
In fact, I cannot imagine anyone voting against it.
Mr President, at the outset I would like to commend Mrs Pack and Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee for their dedicated efforts to secure the best agreement on the second phase of the Socrates programme.
But I would have liked to have seen the Council move a lot closer to Parliament's figure of EUR 2,500 million.
I nevertheless welcome the increase on the common position of EUR 300 million.
This means that a total of EUR 1,850 million will be made available over the seven year period of the new programme.
I, like most of my colleagues, am an ardent supporter of the aims of the Socrates programme and have witnessed its benefits to education and to local communities.
Education must always be a priority of spending programmes as it is the way in which we build the future.
If we want the next generation to be enthusiastic European as well as national citizens we must be prepared to put our money where our mouth is and invest in high-quality education.
I particularly welcome the fact that the second phase of Socrates places such an emphasis upon promoting knowledge of EU languages.
As a Member of Parliament representing the largest part of Ireland's Irish-speaking Gaeltacht region I am very pleased to see that this extends to the Irish language which is a Treaty language.
I firmly believe that the granting of financial support for the teaching and learning of Irish and also Luxembourgish sends out the right signals that Parliament clearly and positively supports minority languages.
Mr President, in the end we can thank three people for completing the Socrates programme.
The most credit obviously goes to Mrs Pack.
Maija Rask, the Finnish Minister of Education, also demonstrated passionate feelings during the night' s negotiations to reach conciliation. And everything was crowned by the diplomatic skills of Renzo Imbeni, chairman of the committee.
It is excellent that we can now adopt this programme, which is so important for the citizens of Europe.
At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the flaws I observed in the handling of multiannual programmes to be approved by means of the codecision procedure.
There was no official cooperation between the Special Committee and the Committee on Budgets with regard to the second reading and conciliation.
This weakens Parliament' s negotiating position, as agreement on the demands of Parliament for the financial perspectives can be called into question.
In my opinion, there should be a review of the procedures with regard to these matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, and the Members of the Conciliation Committee on their success in the conciliation with the Council.
We have managed to secure an additional EUR 300 million for Socrates.
A further achievement is a review clause which means that in 2004 at the latest, the financial implications of the future accession of applicant countries will be reassessed, and that the Commission will have to submit a report.
Thirdly, we have ensured that the procedure for selecting projects is simplified and shortened.
It has already been said that we wanted more money because we believe that education and continuing education are particularly important for reducing unemployment, creating new jobs and making Europe more attractive to business in terms of its economy, labour market and social conditions, as well as for an effective internal market, a prerequisite for which is a European educational area.
For us, the European Parliament, the creation of a European consciousness - a European identity - and respect for the diversity of cultures, languages, ideas and religions in a unified area are inextricably linked to a proactive educational policy in Europe.
For us, the Socrates programme is a means to add a European dimension to the education on offer in the many different kinds of schools, universities and adult education institutions.
We believe that the mobility measures contained in the Socrates programme foster social skills, language skills and understanding for other cultures.
This programme, though improved in the negotiations, also has weaknesses of course.
One weakness is the low level of funding provided by the European Union, which means that the Member States have to make a significant contribution from national funds if they are to take part.
Applicant countries may take part but often they lack the resources to do so.
Other sources of criticism are the high administrative costs and the lengthy application and selection procedures.
We will make every effort to ensure that more and more young people are able to participate in the Socrates programme, because this programme is an investment in the future.
Mr President, I should like to illustrate the past success of Socrates through soup.
Yes, you heard me correctly.
This was not my idea but the idea of Whitfield Primary School in Dundee, Scotland.
These people came up with a "Soups in Europe" project, working with partner schools in Austria, Denmark, Italy and France.
Their idea was that soup is a common food amongst people and that soup transcends boundaries.
Through this project, which was directly related to the Scottish curriculum, they organised a parents' soup day and, with their other partners, produced a book with 25 soup recipes.
Through soup and the support of Socrates the outcome of this project was more motivated pupils and staff, a greater awareness of their own environment as well as other places, and increased understanding of information communication technology.
I hope that the next Socrates programme produces more projects like that of Whitfield Primary School and maybe the next time you tuck into a bowl of soup, you will remember the educational value Socrates has across the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to see that after so many months of discussion and struggle Socrates has finally become a reality.
As Mrs Pack explained so well in her speech, we have arrived at an agreement which is for all of us, as the Members of Parliament have said so clearly, a cornerstone in the construction of the citizens' Europe.
The agreement between Parliament and the Council was reached following a difficult, and indeed, even arduous, conciliation procedure, but, problems aside, it can be said that a successful outcome was reached and that is what counts.
In this respect, I am pleased to see the constructive spirit in which negotiations on this programme were held.
We have come a very long way since the Commission presented its initial proposal in May 1998.
I would like to express my thanks for all this work. First and foremost to your rapporteur, Mrs Pack, of course.
The quality of her work is widely acknowledged, especially among those who have had seats in this Parliament for any length of time, and indeed this is not her first report on Socrates, which is her baby to some extent. She was actually the rapporteur in 1994 on the first Socrates programme, and also on the budget review in 1997.
It is no exaggeration to say that thanks to you, Mrs Pack, thanks to your own personal commitment, Community education policy has been able to make extraordinary progress over the last five years.
I feel that it is not the Members of Parliament or the Commission who should be thanking you, but rather that the young people, the youth of Europe will thank you, and their thanks will be the greatest you can receive.
Mr President, I should also like to thank your fellow Member, Vice-President Imbeni, who headed the Parliament delegation during the conciliation process, and that was not always an easy assignment with discussions lasting until half past three in the morning.
It was no picnic, but Mr Imbeni managed, in his own inimitable, elegant Italian style, to stop the project being scuppered, and for this I am grateful to him.
I would next like to tell the PPE-DE Group that my thanks go to the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, Mr Gargani, who contributed greatly to the positive outcome of the conciliation process.
I should also like to thank Mrs Prets for the quality of her work as shadow rapporteur.
I should finally like to address the Council Presidency, since my fellow Minister who was Council President had no easy task.
She would have gone further herself, but unfortunately she was surrounded by ministers who did not wish to do so.
So please express my thanks to her for her courage and commitment.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the two action programmes - grouping together Socrates and Leonardo which was approved last April - constitute an integrated package of measures intended to promote lifelong training.
These two programmes will be resourced by a total of EUR 3,000 million for the period 2000 to 2006.
I prefer to group the two programmes together so as to increase the total appropriation somewhat.
Our intentions have quite simply been frustrated: we would have liked to allocate more money to young people, but with reality, or Realpolitik being what it is, we have still managed to obtain, as the Members of Parliament have stated so clearly, a perceptible advance.
The fundamental objective shared by both programmes is to contribute to the gradual construction of a Europe of knowledge, capable of enabling young people and adults to gain the qualifications and skills they need to enter the labour market and, just as importantly but something which is sometimes forgotten, to be integrated into society.
A person with little training is not able to integrate himself into society, whatever his hidden or visible skills, and I think this is a loss not only for the labour market but also to society in general.
Furthermore, the two programmes form an integral part of the citizens' Europe since they enable the young people of Europe to gain experiences which make Europe a practical proposition and which engender their confidence.
Indeed, when one is in contact with schools, whether primary schools or universities, it can be seen that the European educational area is a reality, whatever some ministers say.
There is thus no need to quibble about terms, since reality tells us that this European educational area already exists in practical everyday terms.
And there is something I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen. This morning, I attended the opening of the academic year at the University of Turin.
Well, I was impressed. Every year, 600 students from the University of Turin are enabled to travel.
Since Socrates does not allocate sufficient funds, it is the University of Turin itself, even though it has scarcely adequate resources, Mr President, which subsidises their travel.
All this is achieved because there are intelligent men and women who have quite simply understood that we shall not build the Europe of tomorrow without the contribution of young people who have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with other cultures and other educational systems.
As I said in Turin, a city which is built on two rivers crossed by many bridges, I see myself as a builder of bridges.
May I request your assistance so that together we may manage to build bridges between the educational systems of our various countries, as well as between these and the systems of other nations, so that many more students than in the past may cross these bridges and enter into the Europe of knowledge?
Mr President, and this will be my final remark as I know that you are very quick to wield the gavel, it should not be forgotten that education is not the only issue involved.
Culture is important as well. Culture requires knowledge, and knowledge of others means not being afraid.
The lack of fear forms an extraordinary defence against exclusion, xenophobia, and the rejection of aliens.
What we are involved in here is a truly European endeavour, perhaps the finest and greatest in terms of the success it may achieve.
The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not obtained all the money we wanted, is not, I feel, so important.
The important thing is to replace the lack of money with intelligence and innovation, with fresh ideas.
If you have ideas, please help me out and pass them on to me.
We are going to endeavour to include new ideas in this new programme available to us and available to the youth of Europe, so that young people may become what we all would like to see: the Europeans of tomorrow.
(Applause)
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Multilateral cooperation in North-East Atlantic fisheries
The next item is the report (A5-0092/1999) by Mr Busk, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down certain control measures applicable in the area covered by the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the North-East Atlantic Fisheries (COM(1999) 345 - C5-0201/1999 - 1999/0138(CNS)).
.
(DA) Mr President, the aim of the current Commission proposal is to bring Community legislation into line with the recommendations adopted by NEAFC in 1998.
In this way, earlier measures will be incorporated into a comprehensive and reinforced new control scheme designed to ensure respect for the conservation and management policy agreed under the Convention.
The proposal has two main objectives: firstly, a scheme of control and enforcement is to be established for the Contracting Parties; and, secondly, a programme promoting compliance by non-Contracting Party vessels with NEAFC' s regulations is to be carried out.
The recommendations are reminiscent of the rules which are applied within the organisation governing fisheries in the north-west Atlantic, NAFO.
Through consultation and cooperation, NAFO contributes to the optimum utilisation, rational management and conservation of the fisheries resources within this Convention Area.
The Commission has tabled a proposal for converting NEAFC' s recommendations into Community legislation which, in a simplified and coherent way, incorporates all the acquired experience from NAFO and is in keeping with Parliament' s previous position.
The proposal has two aspects to it which ought to be emphasised.
First of all, the implementation of Community policy.
The present proposal contains only the general guidelines for the Community' s initiatives in this area.
It was left to the Commission to adopt the technical aspects after having submitted these to a Management Committee.
Nevertheless, the Commission may be assured that Parliament will closely monitor decisions taken under this procedure, and it will in particular ensure that the same methods for the reporting of catches and fishing effort are applied by all Member States.
Secondly, the financial burden.
When it comes to distributing this, the Commission believes that it is up to the Member States to provide adequate resources to meet their obligations of control within NEAFC.
I would again draw a parallel with NAFO, where inspection and control are funded from the Community budget.
I should like to see increased Community involvement in inspection and control in order to ensure that the rules are applied even-handedly.
Openness and fairness are vital elements in obtaining fishermen' s support, and it is only through obtaining their support that any reinforcement of inspection and control arrangements will really be effective.
Increased Community involvement in the future will naturally have budgetary implications and demand a reallocation of resources.
This ought not however to deflect the Commission from taking the lead in pressing for change or to deter the European Parliament from calling upon the Commission to do so.
Provided that the appropriate increased financial resources are made available, there is no reason why the Community cannot play a much more active role.
The recommendations came into force on 1 July 1999.
They were therefore already binding on the Community before the Commission tabled its proposal on 12 July 1999.
The European Parliament has not therefore had the opportunity to make a contribution to the debate, and I should like, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, to criticise the Commission for this.
This is an outrageous way of going on, to use one of the words employed during the debate in the Committee on Fisheries.
Finally, I should like to emphasise the importance of informing the fishing industry of the purpose of the proposal and of making it clear that the rules are to the industry' s advantage.
Despite the aforementioned reservations and criticism about the timing of the Commission' s proposal, this important legislation should be approved by Parliament without delay.
I congratulate Niels Busk on his report.
Mr Busk is a very sensible member of the Fisheries Committee and I think that Parliament can have confidence in his report.
While I have no hesitation in supporting this important legislation and recommending that it should be improved by Parliament without delay, I nevertheless have two brief comments I would like to make.
First of all the Fisheries Committee was presented with a fait accompli by the Commission in respect of this proposal.
These regulations actually came into force on 1 July this year, although the Commission tabled the proposals before this Parliament on 12 July.
We were therefore left in a position where we had no alternative but to support the proposals.
I find this behaviour extraordinary.
I recall Commissioner Fischler stating during his hearing before the Fisheries Committee on 30 August that he wished to cooperate closely with Parliament and the standing committees of Parliament in a working partnership.
I hope that such a working partnership will indeed manifest itself in future and that we will not again be treated in such a cavalier fashion by the Commission.
We are the democratically elected representatives of the people of the European Community and we are not here simply to act as a rubber stamp for regulations that have already been implemented by the Commission in advance of consultation.
Secondly, although I do not intend to recommend that we vote against Mr Busk's report, I feel it is worth sounding a note of caution that the rapporteur has called for more Community financial involvement in inspection and control of fisheries.
Such involvement implies additional budget resources and, as my colleagues on the Committee on Budgets never cease to point out, the cake is limited in size so that every time we cut off another slice it means less for some other equally important sector.
Only last week, in the context of the report by Carmen Fraga Estévez on the common organisation of the market in fisheries and aquaculture products, this House voted to allocate subsidies to the aquaculture industry for the first time, once again eating into the limited fisheries budget.
We must be financially realistic and prudent and I trust that the House will note my concern at this latest threatened raid on the fisheries budget.
Mr President, there was a report in the newspaper recently - and we examined it in the Fisheries Committee - about the cod catch in the North-East Atlantic and a bilateral agreement between Russia and Norway, two States which - together with other States such as Iceland, Poland and those of the European Union - are equal contracting parties in the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission.
All the States, including Russia and Norway therefore, have committed themselves in this Commission not only to multilateral cooperation but also to obeying a common code.
This is based, amongst other things, on technical data recommended by ICES, the scientific organisation, and now Russia and Norway want to break away and, on the basis of a bilateral agreement, fish possibly three to four times the quantity recommended by the scientists.
This is incredible!
Whenever anything connected with the misuse of resources has gone wrong in the EU in the past, we have always looked admiringly at the Norwegians and their fisheries management, but now we see that the Norwegians are no different from anybody else.
That is why this report by Mr Busk is so important.
It is about a significant legal instrument which seeks to establish a coherent and permanent system of control measures involving all contracting parties in the areas mentioned. The experience of the fisheries commissions in the north-east and north-west Atlantic must be transferred into EU Community law.
The EU can be the forerunner here.
Is it? Can it sharpen its image as a driving force?
If so it would be well on the way to marketing itself and its policy better than in the past.
This is precisely what Commissioner Fischler has in mind; he is calling in general for an improved marketing strategy in the fisheries sector.
Control measures at EU level and at Member State level need to be balanced out.
This buck-passing game has to stop!
We are dealing with cold waters late at night in the middle of December and it seems that only the EPP has the nerve to go swimming.
For that reason there is not very much left to say.
My colleague Mr Stevenson has been complaining bitterly about the fact that we are dealing with something that is already in effect.
Nevertheless, he was not here in the last Parliament and when he has been here as long as I have he will learn to have a little bit more patience.
It was a particularly bad season for the Commission and a particularly difficult time to proceed through all the normal channels since we had elections, Commission difficulties, and so on.
Of course, I am impressed by the quality of the legislation and by the fact that this is the way to solve problems internationally, that everybody sits down and makes agreements.
But, of course, if the Commission, representing all of us in ensuring that this agreement is put into good effect, does not have any resources to do it with, then we are back to the original situation as far as the Member States are concerned.
Nobody has absolute confidence that anybody else is carrying out the supervision and enforcing the law as they should and we will end up in the same situation with this agreement.
If we do not agree, having adopted common policies, to give ourselves the resources to ensure that these policies are put into effect, then we are really stretching ourselves too far and we are only bringing the Community and its laws and regulations into disrepute.
That is the major reservation that I have about what we are proposing here tonight.
May I thank the rapporteur, Mr Niels Busk, and congratulate him on the excellent report he has presented on the Commission proposal with a view to integrating the NEAFC scheme of control into Community legislation.
In the area of control, the NEAFC scheme provides a model, based on the terms of the agreement on straddling stocks and highly migratory fish, or New York Agreement.
It is a model which concords broadly with the viewpoints defended by the Community in the context of this agreement.
The measures on the conservation of fish stocks and the monitoring of fishing activities must be dealt with in agreements signed in the framework of regional fishing organisations, and these organisations must serve as a platform for international cooperation.
The Community has contributed actively to the preparation of the NEAFC scheme of control.
The measures laid down are totally compatible with our point of view and our priorities regarding the improvement of the monitoring of high seas fishing activities.
In this context, it is of the utmost importance that the conditions of the NEAFC scheme of control should be integrated into Community legislation.
The Community must strive to ensure the success of this scheme of control, which will then serve as a model for other regional organisations, and the support which Parliament has given this proposal shows that, in this field as in others, as you know, Mr President, we share the same point of view.
The matter of financing and the distribution of financial burdens must be the subject of a debate in the wider context of the regional fishing organisations.
In order to bring about a debate of this kind, Mr Fischler sent you a communication on Community participation in regional fishing organisations, and this was also sent to the Council.
And Mr Fischler wishes to take part in the debate to be held on these points at the appropriate time, at some time next year.
On the basis of the conclusions which will be drawn from this wide-ranging debate, the Commission will then present fresh proposals, on which Parliament will be invited to give its opinion.
Mr Stevenson made a very pertinent comment, Mr President, and I have to say that the Commission acknowledges the criticism which has been levelled against it.
The fact is, however, that his remarks were directed not at the Prodi Commission but at their predecessors, and I must point out, on behalf of Commissioner Fischler, that we shall be doing all we can to ensure that such criticism is not justified in future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Verification of the credentials of Members elected in June 1999
The next item is the report (A5-0084/1999) by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the verification of credentials of Members following the fifth direct election to the European Parliament on 10 to 13 June 1999.
Mr President, I have the honour of presenting this report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which appointed me institutional rapporteur.
This report on the verification of credentials has its roots and legal basis in Article 11 of the Act concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament annexed to the Council decision of 20 September 1976.
In accordance with this legal basis it falls to the European Parliament to verify the credentials of its Members until the uniform electoral procedure comes into force.
This report on the verification of credentials relates to the outcome of the fifth direct election to the European Parliament, which took place on 10 to 13 June 1999 and is based on the official notifications by all the Member States of the full election results and the names of any substitutes together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote.
However, in accordance with Article 7(5) of our Rules of Procedure, any Member may attend sittings of Parliament and its bodies even if his credentials have not been verified or a ruling has not been given on a dispute.
Accordingly, pending adoption of the report on the verification of credentials, - I hope with an overwhelming majority tomorrow in the plenary sitting - all of us, all Members elected in the fifth legislature, have been able to exercise our rights in full and with no restrictions.
The Rules of Procedure also lay down that, should an elected Member resign from Parliament before this report has been adopted in plenary, the vacancy and the name of the new Member shall be verified, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the Act of 20 September 1976, in a separate procedure independent of this report and which will take place at a convenient time.
Therefore, this report relates only to the acquisition of a mandate as a result of the fifth direct elections to the European Parliament.
The competent national authorities of fourteen Member States sent their official notifications on 20 July 1999.
As far as Luxembourg was concerned, there was a delay in declaring the candidates elected due to the fact that a general election was held at the same time as the European election.
In these elections, some candidates stood for the European Parliament as well as for the national parliament and some were also potential Members of the future government of Luxembourg, which is incompatible, pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Act of 20 September 1976, with Membership of the European Parliament.
Because the Luxembourg Government was not formed until early August 1999, the mandate of the now Commissioner Viviane Reding could not become effective, following notification from the competent Luxembourg authorities, until 7 August 1999.
In turn, Mrs Reding' s resignation will be subject to verification in a separate decision as I previously stated.
On the other hand, Rule 7(2) of the Rules of Procedure lays down that it is not possible to confirm the validity of the mandate of a Member unless the written declarations required on the basis of Article 6 of the Act of 20 September 1976 and Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure have been made.
These declarations - it is worth pointing out - are to the effect that the Member does not hold any of the offices listed in Article 6 which are incompatible with membership of the European Parliament. They also contain precise information on the Member' s professional activities, any other remunerated functions or activities and any support, whether financial or in terms of staff or material.
I have to say that making these declarations is the sole responsibility of the Member, who must make them to the best of his or her knowledge.
In this procedure and in the report that I am presenting today, what will be verified is only whether the formal requirements have been met.
Therefore, Mr President, this is the background to the report on which we will vote tomorrow in plenary sitting in Parliament and for which, as rapporteur, I have presented two amendments which are justified by my explanation about the elections in Luxembourg and by what I have said.
Mr President, the present report by Mrs Palacio marks the successful completion of a laborious task.
We can adopt it, put it to one side and everything will take its course.
Is it just routine then?
Not for me!
Because this report forces us to confront an issue which the European Parliament debated in the last Parliament and brought to a proper conclusion.
I am talking about uniform electoral law in Europe.
Do you remember the Anastassopoulos report in which we laid down a basis for electing Members of the European Parliament in accordance with the same principles in all the Member States?
The new Members of this House will have to look it up.
Presumably it is slowly starting to resurface in the minds of longer-serving Members.
No wonder, because this tends to be an everyday occurrence where the democratic foundations of the European Union are concerned.
Or am I wrong to say that the best proposals made by Parliament of all the nations of Europe - legitimised by virtue of being directly elected - are all too often of little value?
Often they fall victim to the idleness of the Council and the governments of the Member States.
This is the case with the Anastassopoulos report and uniform electoral law. Parliament has adopted it.
Unfortunately, there is no sign of it being transposed.
In my opinion, this is catastrophic.
It is precisely in view of the European Union's enlargement that the public expects its democratic foundations to be consolidated.
This includes uniform electoral law with all the possibilities it has to offer, which we have described in the report.
As we vote for the Palacio report, let us express the hope that after the next European elections the relevant report will be based on uniform electoral law.
This would make the work easier and would be a substantial contribution to greater democracy and transparency in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
Civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0086/1999), on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the common position established by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and amending Directives 73/239/EEC and 88/357/EEC (Fourth Motor Insurance Directive) (rapporteur: Mr Rothley).
Mr President, it all sounded so terribly technical in your announcement, but in reality this legislation significantly improves the protection of those who are victims of a road accident in another country.
I mention this because we are obviously no longer capable of expressing ourselves in such a way that people can understand what we are talking about.
We can be proud of this directive.
It is a joint effort on the part of the European Parliament, which took the initiative, but also the Commission which improved the original Parliament proposal considerably with the addition of the compensation body.
We can, however, also be grateful to the Council for accepting the essential points contained in the proposal.
As far as the recommendations for the second reading are concerned, I should like to concentrate on two points.
The vast majority of the amendments concern drafting points and the legal text itself.
Parts of the Council's common position are virtually incomprehensible.
I am even convinced that the authors themselves do not know what on earth they have written.
I should like to remind both the Commission and the Council of a very fine quotation from a 19th century German jurist, who said that the legislator must think like a philosopher and speak like a farmer, simply and clearly and so that people can understand.
The artistry involved in trying to find a compromise is usually reflected in the legislation, and the principle of speaking simply and clearly becomes out of the question.
Admittedly, there remains a problem of substance, where we in the European Parliament hold a different opinion from that of the Commission and the Council.
I should like to remind the Commission and the Council that in this matter we have the support of the profession, the insurers, who incidentally are the ones affected by the provisions of the whole directive.
We also have the support of the automobile associations and we have the support of the organisations of accident victims.
The only people in the whole world who still oppose this are the Commission and the Council.
What is it about?
It is about this directive also applying if the accident has not taken place in a Member State of the EU but in a third country.
There is not the slightest reason for excluding this case from the scope of the directive.
Let us take the example of a Frenchman and an Italian who have an accident in Switzerland.
Why should the directive not apply in this case?
Why not indeed?
The insurers shake their heads and say that of course it can be done.
There is one insurance company which disagrees - a British company - but all the others are asking, why not?
By adopting this directive, we are not making any changes to substantive law, we are not in any way changing the court of jurisdiction, we are not in any way changing judicial procedures.
The one and only difference is that the accident victim from France - to use the same example - does not have to contact the Italian insurance company in Italy directly but the representative of the Italian insurance company in France.
That is all.
Wherever the accident has happened - for example in Switzerland - any further procedures, if there is no agreement, are not affected one jot by this directive.
It only regulates the settlement of disputes before they reach the courts, not in court.
Commissioner, that is why I am making this request.
Clearly specific interests have been at work here.
It was even claimed by the Commission in a trialogue that European insurers were against my solution.
The truth is different.
They are in favour of this solution.
Hence my recommendation, Commissioner: I urge the Commission to rethink its position.
It is untenable.
I assume that the Council would then also accept this solution.
I wish to emphasise once more that this is not a proposal which has been dreamt up in a bureaucratic ivory tower.
This proposal is the result of countless discussions with all of those involved.
That is also why I think that it is practicable, because those who have to deal with it in practice are after all telling us that it works, it works extremely well, and that is what they want.
Usually the Commission takes account of the interests of those involved.
Ask those involved then, and you will see that the solution proposed by the European Parliament meets with their approval.
There is, therefore, no reason for the scope of this directive to be restricted.
This is in fact only to the detriment of accident victims.
We should not forget that!
Surely what we want is to improve the protection of accident victims.
That is why I make this plea: we should all reconsider this matter in the forthcoming conciliation procedure.
Mr President, this is an important directive.
It is important firstly because - as the rapporteur said - it is one of these completely successful cases of taking advantage of the opportunities made possible by the former Article 138B of the Treaty of Maastricht, in other words, this Parliament is launching an initiative that will be taken up by the Commission and followed up by the Council.
The rapporteur said that this is also an example of good cooperation between the three institutions.
However, I would like to highlight the hard work, which has been notable and entirely praiseworthy, almost Herculean, of the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, throughout the process, from the conception of the basic idea to the follow-up, full of passion and rigour, of the legislative work that has been carried out.
This is also an important directive, however, because now, when we are so concerned about the indifference of European citizens - who do not turn out to vote, who feel that Europe is very distant from them and who do not know whether Brussels is anything more than a place which produces what they perceive to be obligations - this is a good example of what our citizens really feel and understand to be the case.
This is something that they will notice in their daily lives because any of them may have a car, and any of them, even if they do not travel abroad much, will have the idea that "well, if I do go abroad at least I will be covered" .
It offers some security.
It is important for another reason.
Mr President, I would like to say most emphatically on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party, that the large majority of us support the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, on the only point of real controversy which, as he has made very clear, is its field of application.
There is a, shall we say, technical problem in the way it will apply but we will have to resolve these issues from a technical point of view.
We utterly refuse to change the philosophy of it.
This Parliament has shown itself to be clearly opposed to moving from the idea of a binding law to the idea of a voluntary pact between people who are insured with a voluntary subscription on their part.
From that starting point, we can discuss the matter.
If it is true - and it is true, and I was the first to recognise this as I was quite opposed to this idea, defended from the outset by Mr Rothley -, that some technical modifications will need to be made, then so be it.
Let us not forget though that these modifications are to some extent an unnecessary clarification - and Mr Rothley is right in this - because in no case can a directive affect private international law or the rules of procedure.
If these clarifications need to be made, we will make them.
If an item needs to be revised, it shall be revised.
If we need to make a modification, we shall do so.
However, Mr President, in any event, the Group of the European People' s Party maintains that we will not change our philosophy.
We are not prepared to replace this philosophy of binding law with another one that is completely uncertain and not very favourable to the European citizen, to a voluntary subscription scheme.
I would like to start also by congratulating the rapporteur on this report.
A motor vehicle accident in any circumstances can be traumatic, all the more so if it involves personal injuries.
If we add to that an international dimension where the victims find themselves in a foreign country, the problems may be multiplied: differences in language, procedure, inability to identify or trace the third party, let alone deal with insurers.
The mere identification of the third parties is often lengthy and time-consuming.
Once the insurers are in touch, matters are often settled by negotiation.
This directive would be a welcome step in ensuring that the respective foreign insurers get in contact quickly and the proposals for settlement are promptly forthcoming.
So far, so good.
But our rapporteur wants to go one small step further and I feel, as others have already said, that we should support him.
This relates to accidents in third countries.
Let me spend a moment to share with you a case I had in private practice as a lawyer before I was elected to this Parliament.
It concerned a German national who had an accident in Turkey, caused by a UK national.
That claim was being negotiated by insurers in two Member States, and if it had been litigated, it would have been litigated in the UK, probably according to UK law.
So tell me where the problem is.
This is what happens in practice.
There really is not a difficulty with including the small further step which the rapporteur is asking for.
The difficulties that have been thrown up can be overcome if there is a will to do so.
Lastly, I would just like to say one small thing on the question of damages.
I hope that we will come back to this in the future.
The measures or the methods of calculating damages across the European Union differ vastly.
We would do our citizens a great service if we could move towards harmonising this area as well.
Mr President, essentially I can endorse what previous speakers have said.
We have here a good example of a Europe which is close to the people.
I should like to say quite clearly that the changes resulting from the transposition of this directive will ultimately benefit all the people of Europe and will also be experienced by them firsthand; they will not - as is often the case with other legislation - perhaps constitute an indirect benefit or not be entirely transparent.
This is a problem which it is highly probable that everyone in the European Union will experience once at some stage in their life, and then they will obviously benefit accordingly from the directive.
I think that this also needs to be mentioned explicitly here.
I should like to express my thanks to Mr Rothley, the rapporteur, for preparing this report so thoroughly and for taking the initiative - it was of course also Parliament from whom the initiative came at that time - but I would, however, also like to thank the Commission and the Council for agreeing to this in principle.
I do not, however, understand why the problem which has been mentioned here should continue to exist, because so far I have not heard one single comprehensible argument against accidents involving EU citizens in third countries being included in this directive.
So far every argument against this has been unsatisfactory.
Sometimes it is simply incorrect information - this also became clear in the last debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as far as the attitude of the insurance industry is concerned.
I would simply ask the Commission and the Council to make an effort in this matter and go along with Parliament's position.
Since the trialogue's preliminary discussion was inconclusive, at present we simply have no choice but to insist on our good and reasonable amendments and to adopt them once more here at this second reading.
This will then give the Council and the Commission the opportunity to be more shrewd in the conciliation procedure.
They should use that opportunity!
Mr President, this directive is the first case where the European Commission is responding with an initiative to a request made by the European Parliament under the indirect power of legislative initiative conferred on it by the Treaty of Maastricht.
It is an important element in the interinstitutional balance because it shows that, when it asks the Commission, in accordance with the usual paths laid down by the Treaty, to carry out one of its well-founded requests, Parliament will find the Commission to be an attentive and willing partner in dialogue.
This is also in line with the demands made by Parliament and the Group of the European People' s Party in particular at the time of Romano Prodi' s appointment as President of the Commission.
I think that Mr Rothley' s report should be adopted in its entirety: it is a high-level compromise, the synthesis of a series of stimuli and innovative concepts, and the result of the cooperation between the various institutions.
I would like to talk for a moment about, for example Amendment No 4, which deletes Recital 26.
It is obvious, in fact, that, if a legal person, in the performance of one of its duties, should compensate a prejudiced party, it may not be denied the right of subrogation in the claims of the injured party against the compensation body.
Also, Amendment No 11 should be emphasised.
It is true, the problem remains of the accidents that occur in third countries: I hope that we can manage to find a solution that safeguards Parliament' s decision, which aims to extend the scope of the of the directive' s application to these cases but at the same time, without prejudice to the Council' s concerns regarding respect for the principles of international private law.
We should all work on this point, primarily the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, and the Chair of the committee, Mrs Palacio.
A future legislative initiative could address the insurance sector once again, in particular, regarding some degree of harmonisation of the regulations regarding the compensation of harm occasioned to persons, which is creating many disparities and injustices in the European Union.
The Spanish example, once suitably adapted, could be an interesting base to work from.
I invite everyone to carefully consider this.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your detailed answer.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
Heavy goods vehicles in Switzerland
The next item is the report (A5-0075/1999) by Mr Aparicio Sánchez, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the distribution of permits for heavy goods vehicles travelling in Switzerland (COM(1999) 35 - C5-0054/1999 - 1999/0022).
Mr President, two years after the negative result of the referendum in Switzerland on its integration into the European Economic Area, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate bilateral agreements with that country in the necessary fields.
The draft regulation which has now been submitted for Parliament' s approval complements one of the agreements that has been reached, specifically the one on the transport of goods and passengers by rail and road.
In accordance with this agreement, a maximum number of lorries from the Community weighing over 28 tonnes will be authorised to transit Switzerland until 2005, when this country, in aligning itself with Community law, will not require permits for lorries of up to 40 tonnes.
Thus, as soon as this regulation comes into force, the current situation, which does not allow lorries of more than 28 tonnes to travel through Swiss territory, will end.
In 2000, 250 000 permits have been allowed for lorries weighing over 28 tonnes with a full load registered in the European Union.
From 2001, permits will be granted for lorries weighing more than 34 tonnes, with free transit for those weighing between 28 and 34 tonnes.
This number will rise to 300 000 per year in 2001 and 2002 and to 400 000 per year in 2003 and 2004.
On the other hand, lorries allowed to transit empty has been fixed at 220 000 per year.
The current regulation - which I think is totally correct - proposes a system for the allocation of these permits between the Fifteen Member States.
Each one will receive 1500 per year and the rest will be allocated according to current, real or theoretical figures for bilateral traffic and transit traffic.
I must express my reservations about two negative circumstances.
Firstly, the present proposal is being debated and voted on in this House before we know the overall Agreement with Switzerland so we are being asked to approve one part without knowing the whole thing.
Secondly, we lack reliable and up-to-date statistics on current flows of goods transport between Switzerland and the European Union even though this study is about to be completed and the same regulation lays down that in 2000, the current allocation figures could be modified if the true figures differ significantly from those that are currently envisaged.
With regard to both of these factors, I think that the desire that this regulation which must be adopted by the codecision procedure should come into force on the same day as the Agreement, is a sufficient argument to explain the need for haste.
I declare my complete agreement with the basic issue, that is, with the proposed method of calculation for allocating the number of permits to the different Member States and that, given the circumstances, it is the most objective, rigorous and fair method possible.
Furthermore, the regulation lays down, as I said, a system for the annual allocation of any permits that have not been allocated.
It is to be hoped that in turn, each Member State will allocate the permits that it has been allocated with equally objective criteria to its hauliers.
By way of a summary, I shall give you some figures.
If we apply the proposed system, the distribution of the 1,650 000 permits allowing the circulation of heavy goods vehicles over the five years gives a result of 36% to Germany, 20.5% to Italy, 15.5% to France, 7.8% to the Netherlands, 6.6% to Belgium, 3.8% to Austria with the remaining 10% to be distributed amongst the remaining Member States.
Mr President, a few amendments put forward by the two Parliamentary Committees that have been debating the draft improve on some details and contribute to the overall fairness of the regulation and to the ease of managing it.
I think that it is very important that, as the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has decided by means of a vote, we maintain the Commission' s proposed minimum allocation of 1500 permits for each Member State.
I must point out that this number is very low, equivalent to two trips per day for each country, and that the total of all these permits to be allocated automatically over five years does not even represent 7% of the total.
I shall thus end by highlighting once again the overall quality of the draft project.
I congratulate the Commission on it and ask the honourable Members to approve this draft regulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would of course also have been glad if the Commissioner responsible for transport policy had been present, but I suppose that this is not possible.
What are we talking about here?
We are not discussing transport policy today; we are discussing the worst aspect of a market economy, quotas.
How can we distribute what Switzerland has graciously allotted to us - all because the former Transport Commissioner was careless when he negotiated with the Swiss Minister for Transport on Europe's behalf - how can we share out these concessions amongst the Member States?
We need to be aware of this.
That is what this is all about.
The proposal tabled here by the Commission is actually quite shameful.
I should like to make that perfectly clear.
Why do we need basic allocations?
Do we really want the same to happen with these quotas as we have seen happen with milk for at least the last ten years and for them to become tradable assets?
I have already heard countries on the periphery of Europe say today that they will be glad if they can enter into quota-trading.
No, of course that cannot be the case!
The quotas belong to the European Union and they must also be returned to it.
Only the European Union has the right to reallocate them.
Surely it would be better to leave them where they belong - that is, where freight transport really takes place - rather than first scattering them in a happy-go-lucky fashion across all the Member States and then engaging in a laborious process of collecting them in again and reallocating them.
We ought to realise that this is not a sensible strategy.
I should also like to state quite clearly that overall the rapporteur has certainly produced a very good piece of work, and I should like to thank him for this.
However, I have to say that I would have been glad if, given the narrow majority - of one vote - which we had in the committee, the rapporteur and his group had shown a little more willingness to compromise because - and I am saying this quite clearly today - if, when we vote on Wednesday, our Amendment No 7 to reduce the basic allocations to 500 is not passed, we will vote against the whole report.
On this point, I would add that if our group, the PPE-DE, had not abstained in the committee we would not be having a debate now.
There was a majority against the report.
That is why I should like to ask that at long last we be prepared to negotiate on this and not dig our heels in and simply refuse to discuss anything with each other.
That is neither in the interests of those who have goods to transport either through or within Switzerland nor is it in the interests of the neighbouring countries.
When I consider that 30% of the traffic going through the Brenner Pass alone is traffic diverted from Switzerland, then surely we really must use the quotas here to ensure that the shortest route once again appears an advantage instead of placing an excessive burden on the surrounding countries, a burden which is far greater than any statistics show.
I should therefore like to ask that the time until midday on Wednesday be used for further discussions on a compromise.
I have abandoned the hard line I took in the committee, I have been willing to compromise on this and would be glad if this willingness to compromise were forthcoming from the other side; otherwise we will vote against.
Mr President, firstly I should like to thank Mr Aparicio Sánchez for the excellent report and also confirm that he has the full support of my group.
Of course, the issues mentioned by Mr Ferber were discussed; we simply reached a different conclusion.
Firstly, Mr Ferber, I should like to say quite clearly that this is about transport policy.
Of course this is about transport policy. You used the adjective "socialist" here and that is precisely the underlying problem.
Thank God the cat is now out of the bag and we know what this is all about.
What is happening here is that whenever a sensible policy is pursued, for example in the interests of the environment, it is simply labelled socialist, and the whole thing is thus discredited.
I believe that this is unacceptable.
This is about drafting transport policy.
Policy-making means taking decisions about the way in which the market can and should work, but of course under certain basic conditions.
This is what has happened here.
Secondly, this is about putting in place transitional arrangements.
As Mr Sánchez has already said, the transitional rules are a difficult phase in the process, in the course of which we have also tried to keep the Swiss on board.
The negotiations were long and hard.
I should like to say - not because it is a Commissioner from our side, I have expressed my thanks to enough Commissioners from the other side - that Mr Kinnock conducted tough and prolonged negotiations and that a good result emerged from them.
It is a good result, and you also mentioned yourself that this is not about making sure that some countries obtain assets, because if the countries cannot use these assets - as you put it - they go back to the European Commission - to Europe - and then have to be reallocated.
Speaking also as an Austrian, I would say that this is surely about reducing the amount of traffic transiting France and Austria.
This is of course not just traffic which originates in Austria or Germany; it is also traffic which has come, for example, from Greece and other parts of Europe.
For this reason I believe that this is a good report.
I should like to thank our colleague, Mr Aparicio Sánchez.
I also believe that the vote on the report here should be handled in the same way as it was in the committee.
Mr President, we have a saying at home that what God has divided by a mountain man should not join together by a tunnel.
I do not doubt that this is far too strict an interpretation of divine will, and the people of Europe agree.
Over the course of many years they have removed many obstacles on the routes between them.
This has allowed people to get to know each other, boosted the economy, promoted tourism and given people an opportunity to live together.
The conclusion of this Agreement on transport with Switzerland means that after many years a dividing line across Europe will gradually be bridged.
This is to be welcomed, in spite of the problems which this process of course also entails.
This is good for the general public, who will now no longer, as they did in the past, have to take sometimes extremely long detours on roads which were in any case already congested and for which they also paid handsomely.
The new possibilities are also good for the people who live in the Alpine region and for the environment there, which has been seriously damaged by the so-called environmental transit traffic.
Of course there were, and still are, sensitive Alpine areas in Austria and France as well, not only in Switzerland, although obviously there are some there too.
As the process of implementing the Agreement on transport between the EU and Switzerland gets underway, we look forward to it being easier to cross the central Alpine region in the future.
We hope that the package of agreements between the European Union and Switzerland will perhaps also lead to Switzerland's becoming a member of the European Union.
However, above all we look forward to the proposed regulation making a significant contribution - in the short or long term - to a new, better, more efficient, but also humane and environmentally friendly transport policy in the Union.
Finally, with this in mind, I should also like to make an appeal in support of Mr Ferber's Amendment No 7.
He is proposing to delete - with no replacement - the first sentence of Annex 3, which states that "each Member State shall receive a basic allocation of 1500 permits" .
The geography of Europe is not such that each Member State has the same need to pass through Switzerland on the way from A to B. This solution is a bureaucratic nightmare.
Let us do away with it!
In his report the rapporteur, Mr Aparicio Sánchez, addressed the Commission' s proposal for a regulation which has been largely based on statistical evidence and concessions.
As regards the statistical evidence on which the proposed distribution of permits for heavy goods vehicles is based, the figures to date relating to foreign trade cannot possibly be correct since with the existing 28 tonne limit in Switzerland, long haul road transport, for example from Greece, is just not profitable and is therefore not practised.
It is just like distributing visual aids to a group of people, some of whom are blind, according to the amount of printed material they read per annum.
Obviously the blind, who would need visual aids more than the others, would get nothing simply because they do not and cannot read.
The situation is not helped by the fact that foreign trade and the use of transport services do not necessarily go hand in hand. For economic reasons, vast quantities of goods are exported in vehicles from other Member States and not from the Member State which produces them.
Of course, full liberalisation of the internal transport market makes it virtually impossible to keep tabs on all this.
Assessing the needs for transit permits is based on the current traffic flows through the Alpine Region, particularly through Austria, and takes no account of the fact that this traffic flow is largely regulated by the restrictive system of housepoints according to which other allocation quota for Member States have previously been calculated.
Mr Aparicio Sánchez obviously took this factor into consideration when drawing up his report, but, as we all know, the figures are only indicative in nature and are based on available existing figures; they do not accurately reflect the reality of the situation.
We should not forget either that the proposed changes are transitional in nature since the liberalisation of 40-tonne vehicles will only take effect from 1 January 2005.
Furthermore, it seems likely that the EU-Switzerland Agreement will not enter into force before 2001 or even later because of the procedures involved in the relevant areas, in which case the transitional period will be shortened significantly.
Mr Aparicio Sánchez has obviously studied the issue carefully using all the above figures and, together with other members of our committee, has come up with some substantial improvements.
The return for reallocation of any unused permits by 15 September instead of 15 November as the Commission had proposed, will ultimately reduce the possibility of unfairness in the final distribution, which must be based solely on real needs and will help companies plan their operations better.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his sterling work and we should honour him by approving his report.
As regards the agreement concerning the report under discussion, and any other agreement with Switzerland for that matter, where will they lead?
Perhaps when a final agreement for Switzerland' s accession has been ratified, all this will no longer be an issue to us.
Thank you for listening so late in the evening to my maiden speech in this Chamber and I wish you all the best for the new millennium.
Mr President, the transit of goods and people through Switzerland has been a major problem for many years.
Following intensive work by the Commission, especially by rapporteur Mr Aparicio Sánchez whose efforts we have cause to be grateful for, we now have the opportunity of obtaining an agreement for heavy goods vehicles, which is extraordinary progress.
In the future, it will be a question of achieving more such agreements between the EU and Switzerland, and in connection with other types of vehicle too.
However, the agreements on which we can now adopt a position on behalf of the EU concern transit through Switzerland for lorries of 40 metric tons.
It could presumably be argued that the fee payable for this kind of vehicle is high.
Before the year 2000, it amounts to CHE 180.
Clearly, this is expensive, but the cost of instead driving around Switzerland would presumably be a great deal higher.
This would also be a considerably worse alternative from an environmental point of view.
As I see it, there is only one significant weakness in the agreement, namely the allocation of the quotas which have been negotiated and which increase in the course of the years leading up to the agreement' s coming into force.
The proposal, which others too have considered, involves a basic quota which is the same for all countries.
The only problem is that certain countries have no need of such a large quota while others need access to a significantly larger one.
You have only to look at a map of Europe to realise that the flow of traffic from north to south signifies a great deal more for some countries than for others.
For countries such as Sweden and Finland, another system of allocation would be extremely significant.
Mr Ferber has tabled an amendment which involves our looking in a considerably more flexible way at the present allocation, and I support this amendment.
.
(NL) Mr President, I would like to start by thanking both parliamentary committees and not least both rapporteurs, Mr Aparicio Sánchez and Mr Brunetta, for their time and effort invested in the proposal.
This motion for a resolution aims to establish a method for dividing two types of licences for trucks from the European Union which use the Swiss road network.
So this proposal encompasses a regulation and a number of licences, the so-called permits for heavy goods vehicles, and will for the first time offer the opportunity to carry out a prescribed number of journeys on Swiss territory using EU lorries of the maximum permissible weight of 40 tonnes.
The other type of permits, the so-called 'empty permits' , entitles lorries with a maximum weight of 28 tonnes to a prescribed number of journeys through Switzerland at a reduced toll tariff.
It gives me pleasure to be able to inform you that the Commission, which holds in high esteem the good work which both parliamentary committees delivered in this field, prepared as they are to compromise, can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 6 and Amendment No 8.
This means all amendments but one. However, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 7.
Mr President, Commission proposal intends to allocate 90% of the licences to the Member States which account for the lion' s share in Swiss traffic and at the same time, guarantee all Member States a basic quota of 1500 licences annually.
The amendment reduces this minimum quota to 500.
It is said that the outcome will benefit the quotas of the three major Member States which border Switzerland; to wit France, Germany and Italy.
So this would be to the detriment of the other Member States.
Since the licensing system contains a mechanism to distribute unused permits across the countries, I can reassure Parliament that there is no risk that permits allocated as part of the basic quota will be wasted or will go unused.
Consequently, the Commission would prefer it if all Member States were allocated the same minimum quota and, as such, cannot accept Amendment No 7.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 p.m.
Substances that deplete the ozone layer
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0077/1999), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer (5748/3/1999 - C5-0034/1999 - 1998/0228) (Rapporteur: Mrs Hulthén).
Mr President, even though the time is getting on, I am pleased that we are finally to debate this recommendation for second reading.
It is in fact a regulation which really needs to be adopted and implemented, for the situation we are facing is quite serious.
The depletion of the ozone layer is becoming more and more obvious.
The Commission' s first document describes the depletion over Scandinavia, Greenland and Siberia as being a record.
Unfortunately, we now probably have to say that this record has been beaten again.
Last week, measurements were presented which showed that the situation has never been more serious than it is now.
I would especially emphasise this for the benefit of those Members of the European Parliament who have had doubts about the value of hastening the phasing out of ozone-destroying substances.
I would also emphasise this for the benefit of other people who say that it costs too much to achieve so little as a percentage or two reduction in the depletion of the ozone layer.
That is not the case!
The hole in the ozone layer is not an invention. Nor is the fact that it is getting larger!
We therefore now have a unique opportunity with the adoption of this regulation and of the amendments to which the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has said yes.
These measures are not enough to "repair" the hole in the ozone layer, but they are a step in the right direction which it is necessary to take.
We are aware of the causes of the problem, we are aware of the consequences and, in the vast majority of cases, we also have alternatives.
In those cases where there are no alternatives, the regulation provides acceptable margins for industry to succeed in making the required transition. It is we who are to decide whether this is to become a reality.
I would emphasise that this proposal is not an attempt to prevent alterations to on-going climate change.
Arguments of this kind have been put forward but, as far as I am concerned, these are just attempts to cloud the issue.
We need to solve both problems.
A number of the substances which are nowadays used as replacements for the HCFC substances that the debate has come to revolve around have an effect upon the environment.
So too, however, have the substances we use today, a fact of which we are well aware.
There is therefore no reason for reintroducing the HCFC substances into processes in which they have been prohibited for the last five years.
This is taken up in Article 5(3) in the Council' s common position, of which I am strongly critical.
There is a ban in place, and relaxing this can hardly be in keeping with the objective of the regulation.
I would therefore address the Commission and ask if they are really serious about this.
Large parts of industry operating in this sphere have already adapted their production methods and found alternatives, and yet the European organisation for this branch of industry, EUROFEU, is quite unable to see the point of the change.
I would ask the Commission why.
What is behind this U-turn?
I hope that, in its vote on Wednesday, the House will comply with the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to remove this Article in its entirety.
In this connection, I would also mention Amendment No 34 which has been introduced into the plenary sitting.
As far as I am concerned, this proposal is just as unreasonable.
The other matter I consider to be crucial to this regulation, if it is to be forward-looking, is the continued use of methyl bromide.
We know that methyl bromide is one of the biggest villains where the ozone layer is concerned.
It is also a very poisonous substance which affects those who work with it and which does not only exterminate unwanted noxious insects but also all organisms in the earth.
It affects water, air and people.
The time is ripe for a ban.
Moreover, we have for a long time now had alternatives available in this sphere which are in many cases much more profitable than what we make use of today.
I would therefore emphasise the importance of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4 and 10 which reduce the opportunity for continued use of methyl bromide, except in certain extreme circumstances.
I would also mention Amendment No 12 concerning quarantine arrangements in connection with shipments.
The regulation does not provide for any clear phasing out of these.
I would also direct the House' s and the Commission' s attention to Amendment No 9 which provides the opportunity to use chloroflourocarbons in certain extremely special cases, for example to offer pain relief to people who are seriously ill.
I should also like the Commission to review the narrow time limits which are given in the regulation.
The discussion of this matter has, however, been delayed.
In this context, I would therefore put in a word for the small and medium-sized companies which have done their utmost to comply with the intentions of the regulation but which have nonetheless still not achieved their objective.
A certain understanding of the situation in which they find themselves is to be desired.
At the plenary sitting, further amendments were also tabled which have not been adopted or discussed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; one of these I have already mentioned.
These are Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32 and 34, which are scarcely in keeping with the regulation.
I would put a question mark over Amendment No 32, which has clearly been mistranslated both in the Swedish version and in other versions.
I would therefore move the rejection of these amendments.
Amendment No 35 is covered by Amendment No 39 and is therefore superfluous.
Otherwise, applause for all the amendments which the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has adopted.
Mr President, Mrs Hulthén has already said a great deal.
I do not wish to repeat it all.
She did not emphasise the fact that the present common position probably represents the maximum which is possible at the present time.
I know from the Austrian Presidency that people fought to the bitter end to ensure that the ozone layer was properly protected.
Mrs Hulthén, you know how strongly I have urged you to withdraw amendments so as to allow the common position to take effect quickly.
I also said to you that amendments would be tabled which did not seek - as your amendments do - to move forward even more rapidly and quickly, but even to find a way back.
As an Austrian, I have no problem at all with moving forward more rapidly and quickly.
But we have to learn that there are other countries which have not come as far as the Nordic countries, Austria and Germany and that we also have to give them an opportunity to move forward together with us on this.
I am sorry that you did not do this because, of course, moves are now afoot which we perhaps do not like at all.
The European Union has always taken the lead on phasing out the production and use of ozone-depleting substances, and in terms of environment policy Parliament has been the European Union's conscience.
This is the only way in which we can exert pressure on other States in international conferences; to show them what works, what is possible and what demands can be placed on industry - and industry in Europe has in many cases switched to new technologies.
With your permission I will examine a small example in more detail.
It is Amendment No 34.
Halons are very dangerous.
HCFCs are not as dangerous by far in terms of ozone-layer depletion.
Nevertheless, surely it would be ludicrous to replace a dangerous substance with a less dangerous one.
We only need to produce this less dangerous substance in sufficient quantities and we have the same potential for causing damage.
Do you not finally see that this is the wrong approach?
You cannot replace halons in fire protection systems with HCFCs!
There are several alternative substances available in the form of natural gases, such as nitrous argon and inergen.
Austria has a very, very valuable library, the Austrian National Library.
We have a fire protection system of this kind there which manages without any of these dangerous substances.
I can only hope that none of the amendments put forward receives the 314 votes.
Because if we are serious about this, if we want to take a quick step forward, then the common position needs to bear fruit very soon.
You see, whether it is CFCs, HCFCs or halons, today's emissions will do their damage up there in twenty or thirty years' time.
In thirty years all of us - or many or most of us - will already be dead.
But the destruction, for which we share the responsibility here today and will do at the vote on Wednesday, will also be our fault.
Mr President, I would firstly like to say how much I admired the work of the rapporteur as regards this report; it was difficult enough bringing it through Parliament first reading. It has been even more difficult at second reading as we have had a lot of competing views, conflicting scientific opinion and lobbying from various interested parties in the industry on specific substances.
Nevertheless, the rapporteur has done a marvellous job and what we have in front of us now is a coherent set of amendments, a coherent position that goes further than the common position, further than Mrs Flemming thinks we can go.
I am surprised at what she says as we went further than the common position a week ago in Beijing.
We must give it our support.
There are very serious issues at stake here.
If the ozone layer is not repaired as quickly as possible and damage halted, there will be widespread skin cancer, widespread eye damage among the human population around the world.
This is already starting to happen in some places.
We, as Europeans, have to maintain our lead and set an example.
There can be no going back on any particular substances, despite some pleading to do so.
We can only allow the continued use of certain other substances where there is a genuine threat of smuggling into the Union of other supplies that might be used to continue supporting existing equipment.
We must recognise that the Montreal Protocol has progressed step by step.
Last week we saw it take another step in Beijing.
We have moved on to getting rid of CFCs, moving on to deal with the other substances - HCFCs and halons.
We must continue to ensure that process carries on.
In the European Union we must help in assisting Third World and developing countries to move quickly into new technologies that do not harm the ozone layer, that do not use ozone-destroying chemicals.
In that sense, we must support the rapporteur's amendments and look very carefully at some of the amendments which I hope we will see in conciliation in order to achieve further progress.
Mr President, through mankind's own folly we have damaged the ozone layer which protects life on this planet and now we must do everything we can to undo that damage.
There has been very little opposition to the principle of phasing out HCFCs and methyl bromide.
The question in committee has been about the timescales which should be involved.
All Members have been presented with a great deal of conflicting factual information which has made reaching a judgement difficult.
Like the rapporteur, the Liberal Democrats want to ensure that rapid progress is made, that we see the maximum benefits in the shortest possible period.
But the choices are not simple.
There is a real fear that some of the well-intentioned amendments which have been tabled by the rapporteur may actually make the situation worse; in particular, that it will make it difficult for us to phase out across the world, and especially in the developing nations, the harmful CFCs which are so much more detrimental to the ozone layer than the items mentioned in this report.
The benefits to be gained from these proposals are too small for us to take that risk.
We support the rapporteur's aims and will be supporting most of her amendments but we are not convinced that she has addressed our concerns for the environment in their entirety.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Hulthén on her work on this report.
Action to tackle ozone layer degradation is considered to be one of the very few success stories of international environmental legislation, and since the mid-1990s ozone depletion does seem to have slowed down, mainly due to efforts to reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances.
But there is no room at all for complacency.
We are a long way from achieving our goals.
According to the European Environment Agency, in the summer of 1998 the ozone over Antarctica reached a record low level over an area the size of Europe, and the same thing is happening in the northern hemisphere. So ambitious targets must be set and they must be met.
The Commission's original proposal is along the right lines.
However, we believe that the Council weakened the text and so I would like to call on colleagues to support the amendments which were adopted in committee to improve the common position.
Mr President, as late as about a week ago, an alarming new report came out about the depletion of the ozone layer.
This time, a study shows that the protective layer of ozone has reached worrying and record-low values over Scandinavia.
We know what we need to do.
Where this particular environmental issue is concerned, we know what is causing the problems.
We know precisely which substances destroy ozone.
We know what the effects will be upon people if levels of ultra-violet radiation increase, including effects in terms of significantly more cases of cancer.
We also know how the natural environment is being damaged.
What is more, there are nowadays perfectly acceptable alternatives to the vast majority of ozone-depleting substances, and these are used in a variety of spheres.
Ozone-destroying substances have a deleterious effect over a very long period.
In spite of the fact that international cooperation in this area through the Montreal Protocol has been successful and that emissions have declined considerably, it will not be possible for the ozone layer to be restored before some time round about the year 2040 at the earliest.
Until this happens, it is estimated that there will also be an increase in the damage caused, for example in the form of new cases of cancer.
There is, then, no good reason for postponing further measures which we can take right now. It is therefore important that Mrs Hulthén' s report be adopted in its entirety.
By means of the proposals submitted in this report, more powerful measures can be taken against ozone-destroying substances such as methyl bromide and chloroflourocarbons.
Our group is therefore going to vote in favour of all the amendments from the rapporteur.
On the other hand, we are not going to vote in favour of most of the amendments which have been put forward by others, because these amendments would weaken the report.
In the Committee, the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats voted against many of the rapporteur' s proposals.
There has also been vigorous lobbying by industry on this issue.
Hopefully, national declarations exist, or else there are individuals within the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats who put environmental considerations first and who will have the courage to vote in favour of the important proposals in the report.
It will be interesting to see the results of the vote.
Mr President, partly thanks to the Montreal Protocol, ozone-depleting substances can be phased out quickly.
This will not take the desired effect i.e. filling the ozone hole until 100 years from now.
We also hope that the number of cases of skin cancer will have dropped.
As was already the case at first reading, the phasing-out process can be accelerated.
There are alternatives available and the benefits clearly outweigh the drawback of transitional costs.
I therefore support the proposals submitted by Mrs Hulthén to improve the common position.
CFCs and methyl bromide can be phased out more quickly.
In the Netherlands, the use of methyl bromide has been banned for years.
This does not pose any problems within the agricultural sector.
Quite the opposite, in fact. There is no loss of harvest and it is better for the health of the workers within agriculture and horticulture.
It must be possible to stop using methyl bromide as from 2001.
Hence, exceptions for emergency situations seem completely redundant.
Mr President, I think that in this final debate, before voting on this regulation, the following points must be stressed:
My country, Spain, fully enters into the spirit of the Montreal Protocol and is committed to fulfilling its terms in a completely responsible and active way.
It accepts, in general terms therefore, the common position and in this sense, I fully agree with the intervention by my colleague Mrs Flemming.
Nevertheless, this is no obstacle to Spain, with its firm desire to carry out the eradication of the use of specific toxic substances that damage the ozone layer, which regards itself as being particularly affected by the banning of one of them, methyl bromide, which was referred to a while ago.
This substance, which is used as an agricultural disinfectant mainly in clearly defined farming zones in the Mediterranean regions is already strictly limited in my country in terms of its marketing and use and has already been replaced in all cases for which suitable alternatives have been found.
Work has been done for quite a while on investigating replacement substances in order to meet the deadline laid down in the Protocol.
Precisely because we want to comply with the standard, we have to be very careful when it comes to weighing up our ability to do so, if Parliament approves a regulation that makes the conditions and the time-scales tougher.
It would be more honest and above all more practical to state clearly that we see that there is a possibility that we will not be able to comply where methyl bromide is concerned.
At the very least this will cause us to suffer serious financial and social consequences and the competitiveness of some of our agricultural products will be damaged in relation to other countries that do not apply the same restrictions.
We will not be able to ensure that the use of methyl bromide stops by shortening the time-scales. Instead, we run the risk of unwillingly failing to comply and the possibility of fraud which will produce the opposite result to the one we all want to see.
Therefore, the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party feels that it is necessary to uphold in the plenary sitting the amendments relating to the first paragraph of Article 3(2) and the last paragraph of Article 21 in which the exceptions and conditions for the use of methyl bromide after 2006 are specified.
We think that Parliament must set standards that all Member States should be able to fulfil without experiencing serious damage to their economic, social and environmental conditions.
It is this spirit, not an emotionally praiseworthy but unrealistic environmental good will, which leads us to put forward these amendments today.
Mr President, there is no doubt that the regulation in question is extremely important.
With this regulation, the European Union is establishing the means and time periods for the progressive elimination of the substances which deplete the ozone layer, and I can assure you that I do not underestimate the danger of the current situation at all.
The drive to further speed this up, set in motion by Parliament at first reading, has been broadly accepted by the Council.
Despite this, Mrs Hulthén' s report again re-submits amendments which were not adopted, which indiscriminately anticipate the dates of bans on the production, marketing and use of the various substances.
In general, it is a question of an approach, or rather, a commendable intention consistent with the Montreal Protocol which, however, at the same time, does not take some facts into account: firstly, the fact that the other countries that are signatories of the Protocol, including the United States, anticipate longer time periods for ending the production of hydrochlorofluorocarbons; secondly, hydrochlorofluorocarbons are, given the current state of knowledge, the only real alternative in the field of fire-fighting, to halogens, the main destroyers of the ozone layer, which are still widely used in developing countries.
We are not convinced either, by the inflexibility that the report wants to maintain regarding methyl bromide.
I am sorry that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection did not want to seek a reasonable compromise based on the principle of realism.
At times, we have the impression that, according to one interpretation of protecting the environment, the asserting of principles, if not flying the environmental flag, is ultimately more important than the actual result.
The European Union has to be at the cutting edge, it has even been said this evening, but, as regards restoring the ozone layers in the stratosphere, and similarly, controlling the greenhouse effect, the result cannot be measured on the basis of Europe' s speed, but only by taking an overall view.
For these reasons, the common position of the Council, even if it is not completely satisfactory, certainly seems more balanced.
Mr President, to avoid further destruction of the ozone layer we need above all to restrict our remaining exemptions.
An exemption of this kind is granted for CFC-11 to the firm Du Pont in Luxembourg for the manufacture of polyolefin fibres.
Du Pont itself has developed an alternative to CFC-11.
This alternative is currently being examined by the competent authorities in Luxembourg.
There is therefore no reason at all to continue to maintain this exemption.
I would therefore ask you, in particular Mrs Flemming and the other Members of the PPE-DE Group, to vote for Amendment No 28.
We are not dealing with a developing country here; this is sophisticated technology in a highly developed country.
Environmentalists in Luxembourg have campaigned for this exemption to be abolished.
The Environment Minister is behind them.
If we in the European Parliament do not vote for this then the people of Luxembourg will have the feeling that Europe is a step backwards rather than forwards.
Mr President, increased levels of ozone and UV radiation have become risk factors throughout the world in which we live.
I agree with the rapporteur that the effects of this are now clearly visible.
Preserving the ozone layer is one of the main aims of our environment policy.
We are all responsible for preventing damage to mankind and animals as well as to the entire ecosystem.
That is why substances which destroy the ozone layer need to be replaced with alternative substances as quickly as possible.
However, realistic transitional periods need to be set for switching to alternative substances.
I wish to stress the word "realistic".
Where it is clear that alternative substances are available which do the same job, the procedure needs to be carried out within the period prescribed.
However, there are exceptions too and we also need to have a clear picture when we address these.
In the chemical industry certain refrigeration equipment is indispensable for processes of chemical manufacturing.
These refrigeration units are self-contained cooling systems and use a coolant for which no alternative is available at the present time.
The size and complexity of self-contained cooling systems also make it necessary to grant an exemption.
That is why I have tabled Amendment No 30 to the report, and I would ask for this to be taken into consideration.
These cooling systems - I should like to point out once more - are self-contained systems and the coolant does not penetrate into the atmosphere.
Mr President, I would like to express my disappointment and regret, and in saying this, I think I am speaking for the way other Members from the first legislative phase feel.
At the second reading stage, the Members from the first legislative phase cannot make any contribution to improving the content of provisions which will then be adopted by Parliament, which clearly creates a deep sense of frustration.
But this frustration becomes deeper still, more bitter when, in the light of new scientific evidence, such as in the case of ozone-depleting substances, bureaucracy and emotion take priority over politics and science, and do not render admissible amendments that are new and sound from a scientific point of view.
This is why I am asking all the Members to adopt Amendment No 34, already tabled in committee by Mr Bowis and Mr Sacconi and signed today by 32 Members.
The amendment that we intend to have adopted regarding the inflexible and closed position of the rapporteur, Mrs Hulthén, and those who blindly support her, calls for a short postponement, until 1 January 2004, of the ban on HCFCs in fire protection systems.
These substances exhibit a very low potential for depleting the ozone - 1200 times less than halons - and they are much better tolerated by the environment than substances such as HFCs and PFCs, which are unfortunately permitted by Parliament despite the fact that they are more detrimental to the environment because they have a high potential for global warming and linger in they atmosphere, for as long as six to seven thousand years.
These conclusions are shared by high-level scientific bodies at international level, such as the Cairo Conference of 1998, the contracting parties of the Montreal Protocol, the Panel on Ozone Depletion of 1999 and the Ministry for the Environment of Great Britain.
The gradual banning of HCFCs called for in the amendment, along with the well-founded scientific reasons, also recognises social reasons, because a lot of people risk losing their job.
This is why I am asking for your support.
I should like to thank the Committee on the Environment and especially the rapporteur, Mrs Hulthén, for its careful consideration of the common position.
Many of the amendments are designed to accelerate the phase-out schedules for HCFCs and methyl bromide, an objective which the Commission certainly shares in the light of their significant and increasing contribution to ozone depletion.
European SMEs which are leading in the development of the alternatives have proved that rapid phase-out of remaining ozone depleting substances promotes sustainable industries and additional ozone layer protection.
Complex negotiations in the Council led to the adoption of an acceptable common position last February.
Its quick adoption is the Commission's priority.
The Commission cannot go as fast as it would like in some issues, as we are rapidly approaching some of the proposed phase-out dates.
It is important to avoid the introduction of the new ozone depleting substances.
Amendment No 27 would introduce an expedited procedure for adding new ozone depleting substances to the regulation, which would be useful in deferring unwise investments while benefiting the ozone layer.
The Commission can therefore accept this amendment in principle.
Amendment No 9 is also acceptable since it allows time-limited extensions for the use of very small quantities of CFCs in a specialised type of medical devices for pain relief.
Other amendments that the Commission accepts, either totally, in principle or in part, are Amendments Nos 1, 4, 11, 12, 15, 17, 24, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32 and 35.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 and 10 as they would bring forward the first cuts in production and use of methylbromide to unrealistically early dates - 1 January 2000 and 1 January 2001 respectively.
This would cause procedural difficulties and problems for farmers.
Similarly, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 3 which would remove any exemptions beyond 2006.
This would penalise individual farmers or certain crops disproportionally.
Strict controls on HCFC production and trade with non-parties to the Montreal Protocol are part of the Community ozone policy.
Two weeks ago, in the Beijing meeting of the parties to the Montreal Protocol, the Community succeeded in introducing such measures into the Protocol.
However, excessively harsh measures going beyond the common position could shift the market to overseas producers.
Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7, 8 and 23 advancing the phase-out schedule and imposing an immediate trade ban cannot therefore be accepted.
There are several amendments that bring forward the controls on HCFC uses.
The current position represents a careful balance between what is environmentally desirable, technically feasible and economically achievable.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 16 which would tighten the deadlines further for the phasing out of HCFC use in solvents, air conditioning and polyurethane foams.
This could bring increased problems and lead to cash flow problems for companies.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 18 and 34 on the possible use of HCFCs as a replacement to halons in fire fighting.
Expanding it is unnecessary and limiting it is of little, if any, practical consequence.
Such changes would affect a crucial part of the common position compromise.
Amendment No 28 relates to Article 5 and bans the use of CFCs and HCFCs as a processing agent immediately in a specific application.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment because there is a need to provide for transitional time for phase-out.
Nor can the Commission accept Amendment No 19 banning sales of used HCFC-containing equipment within five years after the respective use ban as it would increase the probability of illegal dumping and venting of HCFCs to the atmosphere.
While the Commission has sympathy for Amendment No 20 that would ban the production of HCFC-containing products for export over the three years after respective domestic use ban, we have to maintain the balance between environmental desirability and the risk that manufacturing would relocate elsewhere.
The Commission cannot therefore accept it.
Similarly, while we support the intention of Amendment No 21, it would be incompatible with the exemption in Article 5(6) for specific cases and therefore cannot be accepted.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 22 as exemptions would in any case be granted in full consultation with Member States, and thus it cannot accept it.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 30 which seeks to expand the possibilities to grant exemptions for substances that have already been phased out.
It is important to send the unambiguous message that when a substance is phased out no further exemptions should be allowed except those that qualify as essential uses.
Finally, may I thank Parliament for its work and careful consideration of the common position.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
Labelling of foodstuffs produced using GMOs
The next item is the motion for a resolution (B5-0313/1999), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the follow-up to Parliament' s opinion on labelling of foodstuffs produced using genetically modified organisms.
I do not know about you, but its seems to me that this evening is rather reminiscent of the Titanic.
I have a horrible feeling that the whole ship is sinking.
I hope that I am not right, but if we go on like this, perhaps we should join in a chorus of "Nearer my God to Thee", standing in the middle and singing it.
I hope, when the Commission replies, that the Commissioner will be kind enough to reply to the debate in English.
It is extremely helpful when he does so, because this is an issue where a number of us have constituents who are very anxious to find out what is going on, and it is extremely helpful if he can reply in English if at all possible.
This is a deeply unsatisfactory issue dealt with unsatisfactorily by the Commission.
Parliament's Environment Committee has put together a short resolution in order that Members can debate it with the Commission and we can attempt to get some clarification from them.
It is unsatisfactory in the approach that the Commission has had to adopt and indeed in the content of the proposal coming before us.
What we are doing this evening is commenting on a draft Commission regulation.
There is no chance for the European Parliament to propose amendments to it through our normal procedures.
We can only object and if we do object, that would hold up agreement.
We do not really want to hold up such agreement, so we are taking this opportunity of having this debate.
We underline in the motion before you that we believe that this kind of issue should be dealt with in future through the codecision procedure.
In fact, members of the committee find that the whole European Union approach to genetically modified food at the moment is in a rather confused state.
Indeed we have a number of Commissioners who seem to be dealing with it, although Mr Liikanen is taking the lead.
Legislation has been brought forward piecemeal.
We have already had the novel foods regulation, but this is another part of the jigsaw.
We feel that consumers may well be very confused about exactly what the European Union is proposing and how it will impact on them and on the food that they eat and the labels that they read.
There is still nothing from the European Commission on the labelling of genetically modified material when it is contained in animal feed and we look forward to proposals on that.
On the whole, the committee received rather conflicting signals about the recommended maximum 1% content level.
I really would ask the Commissioner when he replies to the debate to take this opportunity to clarify as publicly as possible why the European Commission has chosen the 1% level.
I understand that the Commission was under considerable pressure to go for a much higher level, 5% was the level which some American interests wanted the Commission to go for.
On the other hand, there are some members of the committee who argue that a 0.1% level would have been perfectly feasible and pointed out that some supermarket chains around the European Union are insisting on a 0.1% level.
I believe that the Commission's answer to this is that the 1% level is the only level at which we can be absolutely sure that the testing methods are available so that they can be firmly based in Community law.
If that is the case, then how can supermarkets chains argue to us that a 0.1% level is perfectly feasible?
Are the testing methods available, and what about the supermarkets claims?
The committee was so unhappy about this that it wanted to make absolutely clear to the European Commission that it wants to review of this proposal in short order.
I hope that the Commission will comment on the feasibility of this.
If the 1% level is found to be perfectly technically feasible, there are many in the Community who want to make sure that it is possible to review that level downwards, and we would like to have the Commission's view on that.
Finally, we turn to the question of enforcement and paragraph 6 of the resolution.
Can the Commission state absolutely certainly that it is going to be possible to apply this maximum 1% content level to very small quantities of ingredients?
As we read the regulation, it says that the maximum 1% level may apply to ingredients of a product, not necessarily simply to the product as a whole.
If that is the case, we are looking at very small quantities indeed, and there are a number of members of the committee who feel that essentially this proposal that we are looking at tonight is unenforceable and represents another occasion where the European Commission has produced something which looks good but which will not actually work out in practice.
Mr President, first of all I would say that the Commission proposal is but a small part of the current legislative vacuum on the labelling of foodstuffs which contain or are produced from genetically modified organisms.
The labelling of these foodstuffs is important for two reasons. Firstly, it is not known just how dangerous foodstuffs containing genetically modified organisms or their products are to public health and so it would be well worth monitoring their progress within the market.
Secondly, it is important that consumers know exactly what they are buying. Only then can we ensure the smooth operation of the market and win consumer confidence.
The Commission has only really dealt with the accidental and, therefore, occasional presence of genetically modified foods and has set an arbitrary 1% tolerance level on just two products, soya and maize.
Granted this may be at least some progress but the question is this: is it really possible to measure and determine precisely what compound foods such as hamburgers and chocolates, contain and secondly, is it possible to accurately measure below the 1% content level?
In my opinion, the Achilles heel of this regulation, which in itself will open the floodgates to corruption, violations and distortions of the law, is that it is impossible to assess exactly what compound foods actually contain and how much is derived from a genetically modified product.
We would have to think long and hard before adopting the Commission' s opinion. We expect to hear from you that through the codecision procedure you will review the proposal for a regulation as soon as possible in the light of new scientific and quantitative detection techniques so as to enable us to better address issues such as compound foods containing genetically modified organisms or their products.
I would like your opinion, Commissioner, as to whether you are indeed committed to reviewing this regulation soon, within 12 months, in the light of new data.
Only then will the Group of the European People' s Party be able to approve its adoption.
Mr President, I should like to begin by agreeing with Mrs Jackson that we are sinking, perhaps not as fast as the Titanic, but I understand this building is built on very soft ground.
It may happen long after we have left, but I am sure it will eventually sink into the mire it was built upon.
It has already flooded on the ground floor during construction.
I expect that will happen again before too long.
Getting back to the matter at hand, Mrs Jackson has essentially asked all the right questions in the right order.
This proposal was supported unanimously in committee because we believe something has to be done, and done quickly, to meet consumer demands for labelling and to meet consumers' justified concerns about knowing what they are eating.
The consumer has a right to know.
The Commission has made a brave attempt to put something on paper, limited in scope though it is, to help the consumer.
I will support that.
But how practical is it?
Is it going to work?
The 1% limit on any ingredient - which I and others have been informed is already being exceeded by supermarkets etc. in terms of their requirements for food - is also a limit which I am told can quite easily be met by anyone wishing to avoid having to label foods containing GMs, because of adventitious contamination, whatever that means.
It therefore seems to me that an early review is going to be extremely necessary.
The net result of this regulation will be, when we bring it in, that the vast majority of food in the supermarket will be exactly as it is now - unlabelled - because the vast majority of food may contain a small amount of GM, below the limit.
That will be what happens.
We are making a brave attempt here.
The Commission is making a brave attempt here.
I would like it to clarify exactly what the scope of its proposal is.
I am told that at the moment it only applies to those products derived from soya and maize.
I would like the Commission to tell me just how practical it thinks its measures are going to be and how quickly it will be able to change them if they do not work.
Mr President, it is Parliament' s intention to give consumers reassurance and also to provide a firm and clear legal framework for companies which work with GMOs.
The Commission' s regulation is not clear on either front.
Firstly, I would like to say that, to my mind, there is an injudicious use of terminology.
You are using the word contamination, whilst, in my opinion, what you mean to say is "presence" .
This is why I have submitted an amendment to our text to delete the word contamination.
Then there is also a lack of clarity, as mentioned by Mrs Jackson and Mr Bowe in this respect.
Up to one percent is permitted in unforeseen circumstances, so by accident.
I would like to know from you what constitutes these unforeseen circumstances, when it is and is not permitted.
How is this evidenced?
You also require proof.
I am wondering how this is done.
Case by case: how should I interpret this?
So if, for example, a lorry has loaded 20 tonnes of corn, then 200 kg of this may be genetically modified corn.
This is one percent.
Or is this not permitted?
So if a ship is loaded with 50,000 tonnes of soybean - I hear the largest ships can hold 50,000 tonnes - this may contain 500 tonnes, 500,000 kg of genetically modified soybean.
Or have I got this wrong?
Do you then say: if there is only 500 tonnes of GM soybean in this ship that this ship is GM-free?
I must say, this sounds rather absurd to me.
So I would like to find out from you what you mean by one percent in ingredients.
Where and when will you check this?
Under those circumstances, I do wonder if a label makes sense and the situation becomes completely absurd because the literature and circumstances show that a number of varieties can be imported and others cannot.
How can you check up on this because it may involve hundreds of tonnes of goods which you are unaware are being imported.
The Commission should take measures as a matter of urgency, clarify its proposals and shed more light on the whole matter.
If food companies wish to offer commodities to their customers which are GMO-free, they should be able to do this and this is not possible under the current circumstances.
Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, the questions have actually been asked, and there are a great many questions about this regulation.
We too welcome the fact that there has been some movement at last.
But it is regrettable that the Commission has only reacted to pressure - pressure from the Austrian Government - and has been proposing legislation piecemeal for years.
Where, for example, is the novel feed regulation?
How, Commissioner, can you reconcile this with the new Commission slogan that there should be greater transparency, when for example more than 80% of soya production goes into animal feed?
I would have liked you to tell me this evening whether you are prepared to announce your support for a moratorium until we have a novel feed regulation.
Because anything else means misleading packaging with the result that our consumers are secretly sold quasi-genetically manipulated food under false pretences.
I would have liked to learn from you this evening how long these tactics of submitting to the pressure of the feed industry are going to last, or whether you are finally going to deliver on the promise which Mr Prodi made here of greater transparency for consumers.
Incidentally - but you know this already - we also think that the 1% is far too high.
The level ought to be at least as low as half, as this is possible to analyse.
If you are going to assume that there is unintentional contamination then, Mr Liikanen, you will have to explain to me how, in a shipload of soya, 3000 tonnes - that is 1% - becomes unintentionally contaminated!
I do not believe that this has anything, anything at all to do with it.
We expect you to do what you have already said you would do in the committee, which is to endorse Parliament's vote, finally invite everyone to a round table and propose a new threshold as quickly as possible.
Secondly, I expect a clear statement from you this evening on how long the Commission's delaying tactics on the novel feed regulation are going to last, and whether you consider it appropriate, with a view to consumers finally having a clear picture, to support this proposal - part of which was also of course drafted by the Council of Ministers - to declare a moratorium.
For I believe that this is the only way to achieve some degree of clarity here.
Mr President, this 1% GMO content limit which does not require labelling, presented here from a purely technical perspective, seems to be a very high level compared with the commitments already made by large-scale distributors. So why is it 1%?
In our opinion, the firms involved in the mass production and use of GMOs are seeking to establish a fait accompli by spreading GMOs across the whole of the food-processing market.
They are making it virtually impossible to set up sectors capable of offering consumers GMO-free products.
Next, it is impossible to guarantee that GMOs will not, in the long term, have any impact on public health and on the environment, especially given that mass production causes them to be dispersed throughout the countryside.
The social impact of the widespread distribution of GMOs has been clearly identified: producers and consumers will become ever more dependent on the giants in the food processing sector.
In our opinion, in order to foil the policy of the fait accompli, the maintenance of complete sectors of production without GMOs must be guaranteed.
Both producers and consumers must ultimately be able to identify whether the products they are using contain GMOs or not.
Means for control exist. They can be effective if the public authorities have the political will to use them.
As far as we are concerned, there is no justification today for the existence of a tolerable GMO level within which the risk would be zero or at least acceptable.
Mr President, the threshold value of 1% in the Commission proposal has one advantage: after years of lack of clarity, producers can no longer make their own interpretations.
But I also have some criticism: the percentage is not justified because it is apparently a political compromise.
A percentage to be selected must be achievable and acceptable.
At any rate much below 1, for example under 0.5%.
This is why I would ask the Commission to develop procedures to review the percentage in the very short term.
We have to prevent this 1% threshold value from becoming a precedent and being applied to the labelling of other products in future.
In addition, I find the undemocratic and non-transparent way in which the Commission dictates this standard unacceptable.
This is a topic for fundamental discussion which enjoys a wide popular appeal.
Furthermore, in this field, the codecision procedure must be applied to the introduction of these measures.
Legislation concerning genetically modified products should be transparent, should come about by democratic means and be coherent.
I support a democratic and comprehensive policy for genetically modified products.
With regard to labelling, I would like to note that it is time to give serious thought to the symbols used for GMOs.
Using minute phrases and words does not offer the consumer sufficient clarity.
A practical question addressed to Commissioner Liikanen concerns the recommendation of the Scientific Committee to draft a black list.
Does the Commissioner share the Committee' s opinion that it is impossible to do this?
Finally, I would like to point out to the Commissioner that standardisation alone does not suffice.
The European Commission and national governments should also apply other instruments to maintain the GMO-free chain.
I particularly have inspections in mind.
Mr President, Commissioner, since the coming into force of the novel food directive, the European Commission too has made a bit of a hash of things, to put it mildly.
This is how we would put it informally.
The European food industry is partly to blame for this because they were not prepared to make any concessions in the past.
Mr President, the argument which has led the Commission today to include the 1% level here in this implementation was the fact that that which was held impossible in the past, namely identification and detection under the one percent threshold as well, is now possible. Mr President, because measuring methods are available.
This means that in fact, anything can be detected at present.
However, the regulation which is now in place means that we will soon have four types of food.

Firstly, GMO-labelled food; secondly, food which is not supposed to contain any GMOs; thirdly, the category with the maximum 1% tolerance level and fourthly, all the supermarket chains which say that they can guarantee 0.1% although with the best will in the world they could not even guarantee this 0.1% because even in the identity preserved-chain foods will always contain more than 0.1% of GMOs.
Mr President, this legislation shows up two deficiencies.
Firstly, regulations are not just in place for maize and soya.
I wonder when the rest will surface.
Secondly, as Mr Sterckx has already mentioned, the term 'contamination' will need to be replaced by 'presence' .
Mr President, I would also like to mention another issue.
Whatever will we be faced with next?
At present, we are only dealing with food available to the consumer.
But if, for example, I consider the foodstuffs or the food for our livestock, then we would need to refer to this novel feed directive and I would also mention the comments made by Mrs Breyer.
Mr President, it would thus mean that if you know that all the proteins originate from abroad, say from South America, that you will soon also need to label absolutely everything with GMO identification within the framework of this novel food directive.
Mr President, I wonder if we have to put up with this Dancing Procession of Echternach for much longer?
I should like first of all to say that the proposed 1% limit is actually, in my view, a sign of capitulation.
It is in fact a very striking result of the fact that, for years, we have seen a lack of overview and cohesion in GMO legislation.
We have not made the necessary demands when it comes to distinguishing between GM material and non-GM material.
We are therefore now forced to accept a certain quantity of GM materials in all produce, without our being informed as consumers about these.
For the citizens of Europe, this really is quite a depressing development in terms of consumer policy.
I can support the present motion for a resolution, but I also think it is worth emphasising that the 1% limit set by the Commission is definitely too high.
It opens the way to carelessness and indifference on the part of suppliers and producers.
There is every reason for thinking that the limit will be eroded in future.
I should therefore like to request four things of the Commission. Firstly, that a lower triviality limit than 1% be set.
If this is not desired, then a one-year review clause, as proposed here by Parliament, might at any rate be agreed to, in anticipation of reducing the triviality limit.
Thirdly, the claim of adventitious contamination due to GM materials must be carefully defined.
This is a very elastic concept that has been built into the proposal here, and I believe it needs to be defined very clearly.
Fourthly, and finally, I would ask that a very efficient supervisory system be established so that we might counter the worst examples of carelessness in this sphere.
I hope that Commissioner Liikanen will be able to respond positively to these four questions and requests.
Mr President, it is not enough that it cannot be proved that there is any risk from GM foods.
There must be clear advantages for consumers, and there must not be any danger to the environment or to animals' welfare.
It is, and remains, the legislators' task to establish rules and guidelines to ensure that the market develops in such a way that the concerns and requirements of consumers too are taken seriously, and that is not the case with the EU' s labelling requirement.
It has already been said many times now that a figure of 1%, set as the threshold value for the adventitious presence of GM materials in food, is way beyond what can and should be accepted as the triviality limit.
It is possible to separate GM crops both in the fields at harvest time, in the course of transportation and during processing.
This requires a good system of consultation from field to table and, therefore, higher costs too, but it can in fact be done.
If, against all expectations, this is not the case, then this is merely another argument for prohibiting the cultivation of GM crops.
The next best solution, involving GMO-free labelling, I regard as defeatist, except as a supplementary, voluntary option.
Until now, GM foodstuffs have only had advantages for producers.
The costs of labelling and supervision should therefore be borne by the producers of GM foods.
The risk in eating the products and the long-term consequences for environmental and biological diversity ought to go on being investigated.
A direct result of this is the de facto moratorium which five countries have introduced into the EU' s procedure for approving new licences to release genetically modified organisms to the environment and which is to remain in force while the relevant directive is being revised.
I am therefore surprised at the reports that Commissioner Wallström does not want to wait for the final revision but has instead backed industry' s offer to comply with the revised GMO Directive even before it is adopted.
This is a treacherous attack on the Member States' moratorium. Moreover, the Council of Ministers' common position does not go far enough.
All I can do, therefore, is call upon the Member States to stick to the moratorium.
It is imperative that the GMO legislation should be revised and tightened up - and preferably now rather than in the future.
Mr President, this is obviously a very important issue that needs to be addressed with some urgency.
Not only do consumers need to be reassured, but the industry also needs a climate of certainty within which to operate.
May I say that I speak with a background in the industry, though since joining this House I have of course severed all ties with it.
In my previous life I was managing director of a snack food company that made tortilla chips.
It also made an excellent British delicacy called pork scratchings - which I just toss in so as to keep the interpreters on their toes.
Tortilla chips are made of 100% American maize; and certainly when our customers asked for guaranteed GM-free identity-preserved maize, we had very great difficulty in securing that.
All the tests we did, in testing that was widely and commercially available, showed even such maize occasionally contained between 1 and 2% adventitious GM material.
So to those such as Mr Bowe who say 1% is a target that can easily be met, I say from experience that it cannot easily be met.
It is a very challenging target.
I believe that the industry has accepted that target, but with some trepidation.
If that target is reduced, what is quite likely to happen - because industry will not meet it - is that increasingly it will just label everything 'May contain GM material' - which completely undermines the purpose of this labelling.
That is the first point I would make: the target is already tough.
The second point regarding a review is that the industry needs certainty: so constant changes every 12 months are no good for the industry, and indeed confusing for the consumer.
The final point, going back to a point that Mrs Jackson made to begin with, is that we must ensure, when labelling comes in, that equal rules are applied with certainty across the EU.
As we approach a new millennium, maybe we can start a new trend towards ensuring that such laws will be universally enforced and applied.
Thank you for this important discussion even though the circumstances are not the best at the moment.
This subject has already been discussed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on 15 November.
I stated then that it is not only an issue of whether we like or authorise GMOs or not or whether we label them or not.
We are simply trying to implement the existing legislation and make it operational.
With the proposal amending Regulation No 1139/98, laying down a de minimis threshold for the adventitious presence of authorised GM material, we are responding to the Council's mandate on labelling of GM foodstuffs.
The Commission was obliged to do so at the time of adopting the regulation.
The draft aims to solve the problem of labelling foods when operators have tried to avoid using GM material and can prove this but nevertheless small amounts of GM material are found in them.
This adventitious contamination can occur during cultivation, harvest, transport, storage and processing.
After our consultations with the Joint Research Centre and Member States in particular we concluded that a value of 1% is a compromise that best serves two things: firstly, the purpose of establishing a very low tolerance level which implies an effort for operators; secondly, that it takes into account the necessary feasibility along the production chain.
We will shortly have methods that do not pose competent authorities unjustified problems for implementation.
I would also like to mention that this value is stricter than thresholds applied by other countries like Switzerland, Norway and Japan.
As you know, unlike the EU, the United States of America and Canada have no compulsory labelling of GM foods.
The wish of the committee is that we should reassess this issue.
I am ready, on behalf of the Commission, to make a commitment: "The Commission will review the draft regulation amending Regulation 1139/98 within one year of its entry into force.
The Commission will propose any necessary amendments in the light of improvements in quantitative detection techniques and practical experience gained with implementation of the proposed 1% value.
Moreover, the White Paper on food safety will also allow the opportunity of a wide debate on labelling if it is wished by the European Parliament."
The Commission has not exceeded its executive powers by proposing these regulations.
The two draft measures are consistent with current legislation.
We will use the codecision procedure when the European Parliament calls for the GMO-free scheme.
So far as the novel food regulation is concerned, Mr Byrne's department is preparing a proposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon.
(The sitting was closed at 12.15 a.m.)
Resumption of the sitting
For technical reasons, the Minutes for yesterday' s sitting will not be available until just after noon, and so will be presented for approval by the House at 3 p.m.
Vote on requests for urgent procedure
Last night, the Committee on Agricultural and Rural Development adopted the report by Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert on this subject.
I would like to hear the opinion of the committee responsible regarding this request for urgent procedure.
Who will speak on behalf of the committee?
Graefe zu Baringdorf (Greens/ALE), chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
(DE) Madam President, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends that the request for urgent procedure be accepted.
Firstly, this is an urgent matter which needs to be agreed this year. Secondly, we agree with the objective.
The great majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is convinced that the use of BST should be banned this year.
(Parliament approved the request for urgent procedure)
Proposal for a Council regulation on Community financial contributions to the International Fund for Ireland (COM(99)0549 - C5-0285/99 - 1999/0221(CNS)) (Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism)
President.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism shall give its opinion on this request for urgent procedure.
Madam President, the request for urgent procedure on this matter can itself be put down to negligence on the part of the Council Secretariat.
We could see this coming for a long time now.
But it is the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism that the people of Ireland must not be the ones to suffer on account of this and that is why we are in favour of this matter being treated with urgency.
I just wanted to check whether there will be an opportunity to discuss this issue later in the week because one of the things that has not been discussed in this Parliament is the role the arms industries are playing in the peace process in Northern Ireland.
Some years ago in this Parliament, when a report was put forward in committee, I tried to get amendments through to say that the arms industry should not have a role in the peace process.
Yet the only job opportunity that has been provided in Derry so far on foot of the peace process has been by Raytheon, the third-biggest arms manufacturing company in the US. So I think it is a contradiction in terms to talk about a peace process and to provide jobs in the arms industry for people who have been decimated by violence.
Madam President, I have requested the floor for a procedural motion.
Numerous Members are stuck in their hotels in the centre of Strasbourg, at least in the area where the Novotel and Ibis hotels are located.
When the first car left, half an hour late, they asked me to pass on this protest because at least 15 Members were in the same hotel and will not be able to take part in the vote because of the transport delay.
I am very sorry, Mr Colom i Naval.
We shall see what we can do to ensure that this does not recur, and we shall see how they may join us as quickly as possible.
Lest the wrong impression be given here this morning in relation to the peace process and the international fund for Ireland, as a Member of Parliament for the border counties I want to put on record here - and I think I speak for all Irish people - that they fully appreciate the important, positive and practical role that the European Parliament and the European institutions have played in the peace process; and I think that to claim otherwise does not reflect the view of the Irish people.
(Parliament approved the request for urgent procedure)
Proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta (COM(99)0535 - C5-0308/99 - 1999/0199(CNS)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
Madam President, we have discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
We see no case for urgency and we would prefer to draft a report in which we can work out the accession strategy and state the position of the European Parliament.
We therefore oppose the urgency tabled by the Council.
(Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
Madam President, I would like to ask you, today being a special day, to apologise to the President of the Republic of France for the absence of some Members since, in the case of those who come from countries a long way from the centre of the European Union, their absence is not due to a lack of will but rather the lack of the means to carry out their parliamentary duties properly.
I am sure that he will understand very well that there is no justification for the fact that from certain parts of my country, for example, it is more difficult, and takes longer, to get to Strasbourg than to Caracas.
Thank you, Mr Galeote Quecedo, I am already aware of the problems that a number of Members are having in getting to Strasbourg.
As you know, I try to do all I can to improve communications.
Indeed, it is one of my objectives.
European Council/Finnish Presidency, Chechnya, OSCE
To help Mr Galeote and one or two other Members in the state-of-the-art plenary that we have here, I wondered if it would be possible at some future date for Members actually to be able to keep the same seat.
We seem to be continually rotating and it is often difficult for Members to find their seats.
Even in the old chamber when we did not have places allocated, we were at least able to continue to sit in the same places.
One wonders how long we will have to keep printing new seating orders.
Could this be rectified?
Yes, indeed, Mr Sturdy. The reformation of the Technical Group of Independent Members has caused a few problems, but this is something that we shall solve quite quickly.
The next item is the joint debate on the meeting of the European Council held in Helsinki on 10 and 11 December, and the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council regarding the results of the six-month term of office of the Finnish Presidency, including the situation in Chechnya and the OSCE Summit.
I have had word from Mr Lipponen to say that he has been delayed.
Since Mr Prodi is already present, I shall give him the floor first, if he is in agreement.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report to this House today that the Commission is highly satisfied with the overall results of the Helsinki European Council.
Let me begin by congratulating you, Madam President, on the way you opened proceedings at this Summit.
Your contribution was very well received and paved the way for a really constructive debate, especially on Parliament' s involvement in the Intergovernmental Conference.
There were three main topics of discussion at Helsinki: enlargement, defence and the IGC.
Let me take these in order.
First, enlargement.
I am very pleased that the European Council decided to open accession negotiations next year with the six candidate countries in the second wave.
This means we will be preparing to welcome twelve new Member States, and we should be ready to conclude negotiations with the first of them by the end of 2002, provided we have successfully reformed our institutions and completed our revision of the Treaties.
A successful IGC is indeed an essential precondition to any enlargement.
I am also delighted that the Heads of State and Government took the historic step of recognising Turkey as an official candidate country.
We want to help Turkey along the road towards full compliance with the Copenhagen criteria, and now that the European Council has given its green light, we shall be able to devise specific ways of doing so under a pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
Second, defence.
I am very glad that the European Council has decided on the broad outlines of the new European Security and Defence Policy, particularly by developing the Union' s military and non-military rapid response capabilities.
A rapid intervention force of 50 to 60 000 troops will enable us to deal effectively with brushfires in our own back yard, especially on occasions when our NATO allies do not wish to become involved.
The need for security in Europe and for a wider European area of peace is amply illustrated by the situation in Chechnya, on which the European Council has adopted a detailed declaration.
Among the specific measures recommended is the proposal that TACIS funds be redirected towards humanitarian efforts, and the Commission will be taking timely action to implement this proposal.
It is a good example of an area in which the Commission has direct responsibility and can make a specific contribution to resolving the Chechnya crisis.
Chechnya was also the main topic of concern at the OSCE Summit in Istanbul in November.
The political declaration signed at that Summit makes it clear that a political solution to the Chechnya dispute is essential, and some OSCE principles were reasserted despite very strong pressure, particularly from the Russian Federation, to water them down.
These include the OSCE' s right to adopt positions on conflicts that undermine commitments entered into by all participating States on human rights and the rule of law.
At the Istanbul Summit, I reaffirmed the European Union' s firm commitment to rebuilding south-east Europe and integrating it into the European mainstream.
I also emphasised the substantial assistance we are already giving, and will continue to give, to the region.
Istanbul also saw the signing of the revised Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the adoption of the Vienna Document 1999 and the signing of the Charter for European Security.
This sets out the common challenges and foundations for European security in the new millennium and proposes new instruments to enable the OSCE to tackle these challenges.
President Ahtasaari and I signed the Charter on behalf of the European Union, and I am glad to say it enshrines the Platform for Cooperative Security proposed by the European Union.
Let me now return to Helsinki and to the third main item of discussion, the IGC.
Very wisely, in my judgement, the European Council decided to launch this Conference as early as February next year, as we had repeatedly requested, with open minds regarding the agenda.
We are all just beginning to realise what it will mean to have a Europe of more than 25 Member States, and it would certainly have been imprudent to close the agenda at this early stage.
Fortunately, good sense has prevailed and the IGC will be tackling not only the issues left over from Amsterdam but also the corollaries of those issues - such as the redistribution of seats in this House after enlargement.
It will also consider any other relevant institutional issues arising from enlargement, and the Commission has already made a few suggestions as to what these issues might be.
I expect Parliament and the Commission to return to these matters in our formal opinions on the Conference, to be delivered next January.
None of the items on the IGC' s agenda is simple, and others may have to be added as the Conference proceeds.
It is therefore time for us to roll up our sleeves and get down to work, and I think that this work will need a lot of attention from us all.
However, I am pleased to say that the Commission has been successful in its efforts to ensure that the European Parliament can play its proper part in the IGC: Parliament will have full observer status in the Group of Personal Representatives.
In closing, let me say how disappointed I am that Helsinki delivered no progress on the European tax package - beyond an agreement to work on it for a further six months.
It was not one of the main items but it was nevertheless an important item, and above all, it has a high profile in European political journalism.
This is indeed a feeble outcome after two whole years of intensive effort, and I want to stress how important it is that we reach a firm conclusion on the package soon. It is important that our citizens realise what this package is really for.
It is not simply - although this is important - about preventing damaging tax competition or ensuring the smooth operation of the internal market - which, I repeat are important but which to most people must seem remote, bureaucratic concepts. It is, in fact, about something extremely relevant to everyday life in Europe: creating jobs.
If there is indeed complete evasion of any form of capital tax, as occurred in the last decade, all taxes concerning labour will increase.
And I do not consider this to be the best policy to fight unemployment.
There is another, much simpler fact: tax evasion is unfair and it is detrimental to employment and we must fight it with all the means at our disposal.
If we cannot find effective ways of taxing return on capital, the entire tax burden will have to be borne by labour, and that will simply make the biggest problem we have even worse.
So I shall personally be following the tax package negotiations closely over the next six months, giving Commissioner Bolkestein, who has worked extremely positively over the last few months, every assistance possible.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be done in the wake of the European Council.
We must work at it together, and for the first time, we really have a wide area to work on together.
We shall do this with determination, in good faith and in a true spirit of cooperation, and I would like to thank you for this spirit that has developed between us.
My thanks to the Commission President, Mr Romano Prodi, and may I now welcome Mr Lipponen.
We have heard that your car was delayed.
You need make no apology. Prime Minister Lipponen, I shall give you the floor immediately.
Madam President, Members of the European Parliament, I would first like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to come and have discussions with the European Parliament on the most outstanding events of the Finnish Presidency so soon after the Helsinki European Council.
First, I will give an overview of the most important results the Finnish Presidency has achieved, focusing in particular on the decisions of the European Council at Helsinki.
In accordance with the wishes of Parliament, I will also give an account of the Presidency' s views of the situation in Chechnya, and I will give an outline of the most important results of the OSCE Summit in Istanbul in November.
I would like to warmly thank the President of Parliament, Mrs Fontaine, for the views of Parliament that she expressed at the start of the European Council.
The discussions we had were fruitful.
I would like to express my warm thanks, on behalf of both the Finnish government and the Council, to the whole of the European Parliament for its excellent and constructive cooperation.
The first decision of the European Council in Helsinki was to adopt the Millennium Declaration in the Friday morning session.
The Declaration gives a concise account of the values that underpin the European Union and the challenges and aims of the start of the new millennium.
Of the Declaration I would just like to mention here what must be done to meet the challenges of the millennium: only an open, democratic, effective Union will be able to succeed in realising these commitments.
The first sitting of the European Council concentrated on Union enlargement.
These decisions are historic with regard to Europe, as the new phase of the enlargement process that began in Helsinki will in time lead to thirteen new Member States joining the Union.
In Helsinki, we agreed to open accession talks with Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Malta.
As the Extraordinary European Council meeting in Tampere had been unanimous on the matter, hardly any further debate was needed.
Intergovernmental Conferences are to commence in February of next year with the six countries invited to the talks.
It was reconfirmed in this connection that each applicant country would progress towards membership on the basis of its own merits.
There were no time limits imposed for accession.
Instead, the Union set itself the goal that it must be ready to accept new members from the end of 2002.
This is the time-scale we need before the next Intergovernmental Conference has brought its work to a conclusion and the amendments to the Treaties have been ratified in all the Member States.
In its debate on enlargement, the European Council paid special attention to the importance of good levels of nuclear safety in Central and Eastern Europe.
The European Council expressed its satisfaction with the fact that talks on Cyprus were to begin in New York on 3 December and said that a political solution would facilitate Cyprus' accession to the Union.
It should be pointed out, however, that this solution is not a precondition of Cyprus' accession.
The decision the European Council took to approve candidate status in respect of Turkey can, in my opinion, be considered a historic one.
The joint decision was made possible by the courageous and constructive efforts of the Greek Prime Minister, Costas Simitis, in particular, while the Presidency was trying to establish the chances of achieving a favourable decision.
As soon as the European Council had approved the conclusions on Turkey, intense and illuminating negotiations with Turkey began.
Relations were reinforced by a letter I wrote, as representative of the country holding the Presidency, to the Turkish Prime Minister, Bülent Ecevit.
The European Council also sent a delegation to Ankara.
The delegation included a representative of the Finnish Presidency, the Secretary-General, High Representative Javier Solana, and Commissioner Günter Verheugen.
The delegation explained the substance of the decision taken at Helsinki to the Turkish Government.
The decisions of Helsinki made it possible for Turkey to attend a joint luncheon with the other applicant countries and Heads of State and Governments at the European Council meeting in Helsinki.
I wish to stress that Prime Minister Bülent Ecevit clearly reconfirmed, at Helsinki, Turkey' s commitment to reform and meet the Copenhagen criteria.
With the decisions of Helsinki, Turkey is to be treated in the same way as the other applicant countries.
But it will not be possible to open accession negotiations with Turkey before she meets the Copenhagen political criteria.
The biggest problem is the defects in Turkey' s internal situation: shortcomings in the democratic system and violations of human rights, including those of minorities.
With Turkey we are embarking on a sort of preparatory and advisory phase in a process in which the country' s progress will be examined with regard to complying with the acquis.
In our political dialogue with Turkey, we are stressing the importance of making progress, especially in matters of human rights.
The Helsinki conclusions urge all candidate countries to resolve outstanding border disputes and other related matters.
Otherwise they should bring the dispute, within a reasonable period of time, to the International Court of Justice to decide.
The European Council will have re-examined the situation by the end of 2004 with regard to any unsolved disputes.
The European Council will examine any special consequences of disputes for the accession process and try to push for disputes to be solved in the International Court of Justice.
The decision to acknowledge Turkey' s status as a candidate State and closer dialogue between the Union and that country are important for regional stability and for a solution to the Cyprus question.
In inviting Turkey to make an even firmer bond of cooperation the Union is acting in accordance with its basic function of establishing peace and promoting human rights.
Madam President, the European Council responded with profound concern to events in Chechnya.
To persuade Russia of the benefits of a political solution, the European Council issued a separate declaration on the situation in Chechnya and its effects on relations between the European Union and Russia.
Only a political solution can end the crisis in Chechnya.
Russian efforts to find a solution have thus far been inadequate.
In these circumstances the European Union and the international community must continue to exert political pressure.
The declaration condemns the bombing, the ultimatum to the inhabitants of Grozny, and the treatment of internal refugees.
Russian territorial integrity is not being questioned, nor its entitlement to combat terrorism.
The action Russia has taken is, however, contrary to international humanitarian law and is in violation of the obligations that Russia, as a member of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, agreed to honour regarding human rights.
The declaration also notes that there is a danger of the crisis spreading in the region, and it also poses a special risk to Georgia' s territorial integrity.
The European Council concluded that the situation would affect the implementation of the joint strategy for Russia, and that that strategy would have to be re-examined.
Discussions on this will start this week.
The declaration adopted on Saturday in Helsinki was made known to the Russian Government the same day by means of a letter from the President of the European Council and the High Representative.
It was the European Council' s opinion that parts of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement should be suspended and those parts to do with trade policy should be rigorously applied.
The Presidency is asking the legal departments of the Commission and the Council to report on the legal aspects of the issue in a Working Group this week.
The year is nearly over.
After the Union' s internal decisions have been taken, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement will move on in accordance with the regulations.
It was also decided at Helsinki that we should ask for a proportion of TACIS funds to be set aside for humanitarian aid.
But that should only affect Russia.
TACIS concerns the whole of the Confederation of Independent States area, and the Union has thus no cause to sanction any CIS States or Mongolia.
I would also like to say here that the Union must not undermine the long-term programme of cooperation we are putting into effect, which we must do to support democratic and stable development in Russia.
This would not be to the Union' s advantage.
The European Council underlined this by saying it was vital to continue with projects to support human rights, the rule of law and civil society as well as nuclear safety.
The European Council is at the same time asking, in line with the common strategy on Russia, the OSCE and the Council of Europe to examine the shape their strategy on cooperation with Russia takes in their different areas.
The visit by the Chairman of the OSCE to the area this week, right now, in fact, will show whether there are any changes in the Russian position.
We must focus particular attention on this visit and its outcome.
We have to discover whether the Council of Europe can intensify efforts relating to Russia in the areas of human rights and civil society.
The aim is not to exclude Russia from the work of the Council of Europe.
It is not in Russia' s interests, so I believe, to isolate itself from Europe and the rest of the world, particularly if that scenario were extended beyond the time of the Russian elections for quite a long time into the future.
We must hope that a realistic attitude will soon take shape in Moscow.
Neither is Russian isolation in the interests of the European Union nor anyone else in Europe.
Madam President, the European Council approved the Presidency' s report on the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Intergovernmental Conference will start in February next year and would end in December 2000.
The agenda covers the issues left unresolved at Amsterdam; that is, the size and composition of the Commission, the weighting of votes in the Council, and the possible increase in qualified majority decisions in the Council as well as other issues relating to the Union institutions in connection with these matters.
The next country to hold the Presidency, Portugal, will give the European Council a report on progress in the IGC arrangements and the addition to the agenda of any other issues.
The General Affairs Council has the overall political responsibility for the IGC.
Responsibility for preparations lies with a Working Group made up of a representative of each Member State' s government.
There will also be a representative from the Commission at the political and preparatory levels.
We are expecting good levels of cooperation with Parliament as the reforms are drafted.
The position of the European Parliament will be strengthened compared to the previous Intergovernmental Conference as two observers from Parliament will be invited to attend the meetings of the preparatory Working Group.
Each meeting at ministerial level will be preceded, in accordance with earlier practices, by talks with the President of the European Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Council also debated the development of the European common security and defence policy, with particular reference to crisis management.
The development of facilities to cope with both civil and military crisis management was discussed, on the basis of reports produced by the Presidency.
The conclusions remind us that the on-going process does not mean the creation of a European army.
A common objective was agreed in Helsinki on all the military resources needed for rapid deployment to implement the Petersberg tasks with regard to crisis management.
Common resources are rapidly being developed for the Union in the areas of systems of command, intelligence and strategic transport.
In developing civil resources for crisis management it is especially urgent to improve police facilities and arrangements for prompt funding arrangements.
In the conclusions of the Presidency, it was stated that the first progress report on the document now adopted would be presented at the European Council in Lisbon.
We should be satisfied that the Member States have been able to make rapid progress in improving the Union' s readiness for crisis management during the Finnish Presidency.
The European Council noted with satisfaction that the recovery in the economies of the Member States has gathered pace and is spreading all the time.
The basics of a healthy economy - good opportunities for investment, low inflation and improved public finances are the basis of this recovery.
The introduction of the euro has helped to make the outlook favourable.
Our challenges include changes in the population structure and increased competition as a result of globalisation and the need it creates for the encouragement of innovation and structural adaptation.
The European Council said that the coordination of economic, employment and structural policy must be enhanced in accordance with the recommendations in the Council' s report.
In the Union we must focus on the effective application and streamlining of current processes and arrangements.
The general objectives and trends in policy will be determined through broad guidelines drawn up for economic policy.
The debate on these issues will continue at the Extraordinary meeting of the European Council in Lisbon in March.
In my view, it could turn out to be a very important meeting.
As is well known - and the President of the Commission referred to this in his speech - Helsinki also failed to achieve progress in one area.
We were unable to reach consensus on the taxation package.
In the conclusions on taxation, however, it was reconfirmed that people residing in the Member States of the Union would have to pay tax on all income from savings.
A High Level Working Group is examining how this principle can be put most effectively into practice.
The tax package is thus holding together, and it cannot be said that anyone got away scot-free in this matter.
This, along with items in the tax package, will be reported to the European Council no later than June 2000.
In environmental policy the European Council stressed the need to intensify the work being done in this area in the next few years.
The European Council decided to attempt to make it possible for the Member States to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before the year 2002.
In addition, the conclusions ask the Commission to draft a proposal for a sixth Environmental Action Programme by the end of 2000.
Similarly, we are asking the Commission to draft a proposal for the European Council convening in June 2001 for a long-term strategy, in which policies for economically, socially and ecologically sustainable development are dovetailed.
The main event of the Finnish Presidency in the context of the work of the OSCE was the Summit held in Istanbul on 18 and 19 November.
The European Union is mainly satisfied with the outcome of the Summit meeting.
At the meeting a Charter for European Security was signed.
The Charter is founded on earlier commitments and reinforces the establishment of democracy, peace and human rights.
The Charter will also strengthen the OSCE' s ability to fulfil its functions attend to its duties.
The Charter also includes the EU proposal for a Platform for Cooperative Security between international organisations, especially in conflict prevention and crisis management, and reinforces the rapid-deployment civilian crisis management capabilities of the Organisation.
It is particularly important - given, also, Russia' s action in Chechnya - for the Charter to reinforce the notion that commitments also have to be complied with in internal conflicts of States.
At the meeting we also approved a declaration on topical political issues.
In the declaration a stand is taken on the situation in Chechnya and Kosovo.
In addition, the parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the so-called CFE, also signed an adapted Treaty at the Istanbul Summit.
That agreement ensures there are limits to conventional armed forces on a country-by-country basis, corresponding to the post-Cold War situation.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I should like first on behalf of the Group for the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats to extend my warmest thanks to the Finnish Presidency of the Council for its work and its good intentions.
Mr President of the Council, your work and the work of your foreign secretary and your minister Kimmo Sasi demonstrate that smaller Member States are also capable of excellent work and we would like to extend our special thanks for that work, especially as this is the first time that the Republic of Finland has taken over the Council Presidency.
So please accept our thanks and our recognition.
Participants at the Summit and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have spoken of historic decisions.
I find this description somewhat premature.
Time will tell if the decisions taken at Helsinki were in fact historic in the positive sense or, possibly, historic in a negative sense.
Only historians will be able to say if Helsinki was a Summit of enlargement fever and mini reforms or if it really helped to strengthen the European Union and give Europe the power to act in the 21st century.
We hope that it will be the latter and that the Helsinki Summit will become a symbol of Europe' s strength and power to act in the 21st century.
That is our hope, but it will depend on action, not the words in the presidency' s conclusions.
We welcome the fact that enlargement negotiations are to commence with Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta.
This has always been the policy of the PPE-DE Group.
Europe needs to grow together now.
As far as the question of the reform of the European Union is concerned, we welcome the fact that the way has been opened for further reform beyond the three Amsterdam leftovers and we hope that the Portuguese Presidency of the Council will also do the right thing.
But we are concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to read in point 16 of the Council' s conclusions that the question of the possible extension of qualified majority voting in the Council will be examined.
The possibility!
No, we do not need to examine the possibility; we need to extend majority voting so that the European Union can continue to expand.
We say this quite clearly in the run-up to the intergovernmental conference.
We are also waiting for the European Union to be given a legal personality.
We are also waiting for the European Parliament to be given codecision powers on all legislative matters.
We are also waiting for the European Parliament to be given the right to vote on amendments to the Treaty and we agree with the proposals by Dehaene, Weizsäcker and Lord Simon that the right thing to do would be to create a basic treaty and an enlarged treaty, so that the citizens of Europe also know which level is responsible and what the European Union will look like in the 21st century.
On Turkey: The President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, rightly says that we need a debate on the geographical borders of the Union.
We would have welcomed such a discussion before the decision to grant Turkey candidate status, rather than starting it now.
(Applause)
As far as Turkey' s status as a candidate country is concerned, we do not wholly agree with the majority of our group.
The same applies in the other groups.
It is an important question, and there is no harm in having differences of opinion.
But the great majority of our group is sceptical because we know that Turkey' s membership will change the political, economic and cultural face of the European Union.
We hope, because we regard Turkey as a friend, that it will succeed in building up a real civil society, that it will succeed in giving the ethnic Kurds a real identity, as part of the Turkish federation and the Turkish nation, and we hope that the Turkish military, which is allied with the west - and that is the real tragedy, will moderate its action in relation to the Kurdish question and stop using military intervention rather than dialogue in order to overcome problems which arise with the Kurds.
In other words, we hope that Turkey will succeed in building up a real civil society.
My final point concerns foreign, security and defence policy.
We congratulate the Finnish Presidency, as a traditionally non-aligned country, on having taken a courageous step.
But actions speak louder than words.
It would be a sorry day for the European Union if we were to talk of European defence without giving the European Union the means to implement European defence and if we were to end up driving a wedge between us and our American partners in NATO.
Words must now be backed up by action to strengthen the European Union as a whole and give it the power to act.
It must be given a really democratic, human rights-orientated policy so that the European Union can be a stabilising factor, a factor for peace, development, human rights and democracy in the Europe of the 21st century.
This is the real task ahead of us and we hope that Helsinki has laid the foundations for it and that words will now be backed up by action.
(Applause)
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to offer my heartfelt congratulations to the Finnish Presidency on the success of their debut.
It has been a fine debut, because you have been able, at this historic and symbolic moment, at the dawn of the new millennium, to draw up a creative approach for the European Union in the light of the challenges it is facing.
I believe that Prime Minister Lipponen and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Halonen, who is absent today due to other work commitments, have truly worked effectively and seriously.
Our fundamental criticism of the Finnish Presidency and the Summit is that, clearly, and in the eyes of our citizens, their substance has been more impressive than appearances would suggest.
I think this concern should be expressed through our comments and criticisms here in the European Parliament.
Why?
Because, with regard to enlargement, an open and political principle has been displayed by offering all countries the possibility of acceding, of competing with us, with a desire to emulate us and of participating in our adventure.
It is also clear that a significant and genuine step forward has been taken in relation to Turkey.
I have to say, on behalf of my group - where we have debated the issue at length - that our positive attitude towards Turkey is unanimous.
And now, at a time when this step has been taken - and we must remember that relations with Turkey did not start yesterday, but in 1963 -, we hope that Turkey will also respond in a positive manner, both with regard to its internal process of democratisation as well as its relations, not only with the Community, but essentially with the country which has taken the most important step and which I think should be congratulated: Greece and its government.
Next, with regard to the Intergovernmental Conference, which is the preliminary step we have to take in preparing our shared Community for enlargement, I believe that we are moving forward significantly, but I am extremely aware that the Council systematically tries to undervalue what it does.
There is always talk about the leftovers of Amsterdam; leftovers are normally thrown in the bin.
These are very important decisions.
Confirming the principle of majority voting as a general rule in the Community, as the basis for the political functioning of the Union (which is very important for the Parliament insofar as we can make codecisions), being granted legal personality, which includes, in the Conference, decisions which the Council has taken, such as, for example, drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights... What is the point of all this if it is not included in the Treaties?
A significant step has been taken with regard to security and defence policy, and in this sense I would like to underline the fact that the Community spirit is winning us all over.
Who would have said a year ago that Finland would be the country which would preside over the European Union at a time when it was taking such a decisive step in terms of security and defence identity?
I believe this shows that, together, we are doing things and taking positive steps.
Curiously though, we do not explain them and we do not sell them.
And nor do we accept an important task in this Parliament which is, in the name of transparency and through clarification, to try to create Treaties which are comprehensible to the citizens.
I would remind you that this appears in the Treaty of Amsterdam, but has not been mentioned since. This opportunity, which is so important, has never been taken.
I must also say that the Summit statement with regard to the European Parliament' s participation may well be positive to an extent, but we do not like to be described as parliamentary observers.
We want to have 'representatives' of this Parliament, because that is the role of our institution.
And remembering what happened at the Seattle Summit, I believe that we have to make a considerable effort to explain to the citizens what we are doing.
Otherwise, we run the risk of producing unwanted reactions.
A final word, Madam President, regarding an issue which concerns my group very much.
It seems to us absolutely essential that we are able to move forward in relation to capital-gains tax.
The European process cannot be seen as a process in which there is less and less capital gains tax and more and more tax on wages.
If we continue along these lines, we may find that those in work will react against the European process, especially within a framework of financial globalisation which lacks rules.
Therefore, Madam President, I believe that the Finnish Presidency has taken an enormous step forward.
What is now required is a sustained, hard, arduous and persistent effort to keep things moving forward.
But, above all, we have to carry out the task of explaining the process to our citizens, and I believe that that is our principal mission.
I would like, on behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group, to warmly congratulate the Finnish Presidency.
You have completed a very successful first presidency for Finland but you have done it with a capacity that does enormous credit to the tasks which you addressed.
The Summit has produced a result which is worthy of the times.
We are at the end of a century, we are contemplating a new millennium and it is a time of review, a time of outlook and a time of new optimism.
I believe, in a certain way, the Summit has captured that.
I believe that the major decisions that have been made in respect of enlargement, reform and defence show that there is a sustained vitality in our common European vocation.
That is an important message and the central message that has emerged from your successful presidency and on that you deserve rich and proper congratulation.
I should like to say, in respect of enlargement, that my group, as the others too have expressed here today, is extremely pleased to see that negotiations will open soon with the six additional States of Central and Eastern Europe.
It is important that we inject a new political dynamic into the enlargement process.
The enlargement process itself is essentially a political process and we must not lose sight of that, notwithstanding the many technical dimensions that attend it.
On the question of Turkey: my group welcomes the decision to extend candidate status to Turkey and regards it as positive.
We hope that the modernising influences within Turkish politics and society will now take hold of this opportunity and build on it in a positive way.
But in welcoming the decision as we do, we insist that those modernising forces must make determined progress towards European norms of respect for human rights and of the relationship between civil and military society; towards the abolition of the death penalty; towards a clear respect for minorities, especially the Kurdish minority in Turkey.
The European Union has also made through your presidency a wise choice in insisting that the reform process in the Treaties must be over and operational by the year 2002 so that it will facilitate early accession because it is important to ensure that the reform process should not become the enemy of the enlargement process.
The IGC has the opportunity to enhance efficiency and effectiveness and to deepen the democratic character of the European Union.
However, we are disappointed that the IGC agenda which has been contemplated at Helsinki has been limited to what has been described as the Amsterdam leftovers.
I accept that these are not merely crumbs on the table, they are significant slices of reform but we must grasp this opportunity to do more.
My group, through this House, will work with other parliamentarians and with the Commission to try to convince the incoming Portuguese Presidency to be more ambitious in the reform, all the while respecting the timetable.
I share the view of other colleagues that it is unfortunate to describe the role that this House can play as one merely of observer.
I welcome the fact that we will participate but we participate as equals and not merely as observers.
On the question of defence, we warmly welcome the establishment of the rapid reaction force and its significant and necessary progress - Kosovo has taught us dearly the need for that.
My group, however, again wishes to stress the importance that this should be seen in the context of a strong Atlantic Alliance.
We must not give any succour to the forces in US politics who show a tendency towards isolationism, many of whose voices are now raised in the current US Presidential election.
In this regard, one suggestion is that we contemplate the establishment of a political and security committee and military committee.
Could the Defence Minister of the incoming Presidency come to this House at an early date and make a statement to us?
We need to clarify a number of things such as the role of EU non-NATO members in such a force and the role of non-EU NATO members in respect of such a force if they wish to participate.
This and other issues should have a democratic airing and this is the place to do so at a European level.
A final comment: I could not sit down without mentioning our deep concern about Chechnya.
We welcome the fact that this is occupying the attention of Helsinki.
We would urge the IMF also to act vigorously in this regard because, although each State has a right to defend itself against terrorism, what we observe in Chechnya is grossly disproportionate to the scale of the perceived threat and we have to deplore and condemn it at every opportunity.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, my group would first like to acknowledge to those representing the Finnish Presidency that you, as compared with the European Parliament, have improved transparency and the flow of information.
The Finnish Presidency has kept us better informed than former presidencies, which is obviously important, as it strengthens relations between the European Parliament and the Council with reference to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The conclusions of the Summit meeting declare, quite satisfactorily, that the Commission at last intends to issue a proposal in January regarding the conditions on which the public will be able to access the documents of the institutions.
I would like to tell you that this draft regulation has been leaked to the public, and that is worrying.
That does not make for a spirit of transparency; on the contrary, it might even weaken it, so I would ask you to give this matter your attention.
The final proposal can surely yet be amended in such a way that it would really increase transparency.
Regarding enlargement, I wish to say that we are very satisfied that the Council has now finally agreed that each candidate country must be assessed on their own merits.
This is exactly the strategy we proposed from the outset.
Now we have to ensure that we also achieve a balance in the progress we make in negotiations and that candidate countries give sufficient consideration to the issues of social security, equality between men and women, employment and environmental protection.
With regard to Turkey, our opinion is that the European Council should mean what it says, in other words, that the same criteria should apply to Turkey as with the other countries that have been accorded candidate status.
We call on you to look seriously into the question relating to the status of the Kurds.
Islam is obviously already a European tradition, and so we have no fears of the European Union becoming more religiously diverse.
We were not inclined to agree with those in the European Parliament who have been keen to narrowly define the borders of Europe in the belief that Islam is somehow non-European.
On the contrary, we think it can indeed be a part of European culture.
Th majority of our group would seem to agree that the European Union should also develop a system for military crisis management, to prevent humanitarian catastrophes.
We are very dissatisfied with the way in which the European Council and preparatory discussions have paid little heed to public debate and public opinion.
We want to point out that foreign and security policy, as any other, must be democratic, and you must open up this debate, so the public know what the next phases of the process are to be.
We do not want the European Union to become NATO' s European military pillar.
We want you to strengthen civil crisis management, because, as we all know, it is the wisest thing to do.
The non-military prevention of conflicts is always more important, and for every euro invested in military crisis management at least as much must be spent on civil crisis management.
Finally, your position on Chechnya was a step in the right direction.
I am certain the European Parliament' s calls to put economic cooperation on ice have had an effect, and we believe that you will remain firm in your opinion that this is not a situation in which we can act as if nothing has happened.
Mr President, a quarter of a century ago, at the time of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the spirit in Helsinki was one of peace and cooperation.
Now it is a spirit of European militarisation.
At the Helsinki Summit, the EU expanded its role to include the militarisation of the Union.
We are to establish our own European army for the EU, although it will not be called that officially.
The Member States committed themselves to releasing troops from their own authority to form a fifty thousand strong European army and assigned troops equivalent to a whole corps for the joint deployment of the EU.
In addition, they are going to create rapid deployment forces for wars lasting no more than a year.
At Amsterdam a common foreign and security policy was referred to.
At Cologne it was already a common security and defence policy that was mentioned.
Since then, many, following the lead of the Commission, have started talking about a common defence.
The ideas expressed speak for themselves.
The EU has started to become a war alliance and a military alliance.
At Helsinki, the attendance of defence ministers at meetings of the General Affairs Council was officially approved.
The EU will thus acquire a Council of Ministers of War.
In Helsinki a standing committee on political and security matters was set up.
Since Helsinki, the commanders of the defence forces of the various countries have formed an EU Military Committee, which is free of any kind of democratic scrutiny.
It was also decided at Helsinki to establish a Military Staff, which will be an EU military planning body for spying operations and mobilisation.
Consequently, talk has begun of the need to increase military appropriations.
Via the new institutions, a new defence dimension is being created, despite the fact that no agreement has been made in the Treaties that joint military operations fall within the scope of the EU.
These decisions should be taken to the EU Court of Justice.
Can Heads of State and Government extend the role of the EU without the approval of Parliament?
The NATO countries doubtless intend to put the decisions of the fiftieth anniversary conference of the "Alliance" into effect.
Since the decisions taken at Washington the NATO countries have been able to act outside the territories of their Member States.
They have assumed the right to attack other countries without a mandate from either the UN or the OSCE.
In NATO this is called humanitarian intervention, as it has no mandate under international law.
In the EU, it is called crisis management, which also includes forcible peace-making.
There was no decision at Helsinki to mandate crisis management or forcible peace-making.
As the EU is being militarised, it would seem to be happening with a mandate from NATO.
The Finnish Presidency has ended wretchedly from the point of view of preserving the non-alignment of a non-aligned State.
If the meeting were historic this was mainly in the sense that the EU is being militarised.
There were no surprises at Helsinki as far as EU enlargement and the Intergovernmental Conference were concerned.
In the opinion of our group, the Russian attack on civilians in Chechnya is to be strongly condemned, and it was at Helsinki.
In the fight against unemployment, we wish Portugal better success that Finland had.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit of EU leaders has been quite accurately billed as the European Union's enlargement Summit, and there can be no doubt that this European Council meeting has lived up to this particular expectation.
The EU leaders reaffirmed the inclusive nature of the accession process which now comprises 13 candidate States within a single framework.
In essence what this means is that the countries, including Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta, will now open negotiations on membership of the European Union in March of next year.
These new countries join with the original six that are already engaged in extensive talks with the Union covering 38 different chapters of negotiations concerning the enlargement process.
All the countries seeking to accede to the EU regard the prospect of membership of the Union as an essential ingredient in achieving the transformation of their economic and political structures.
The leaders of the 15 countries presently comprising membership of the EU believe that there will have to be substantial changes to the internal decision-making processes within the EU if the enlargement process is to take place in a structured and streamlined fashion.
EU leaders have agreed to set the end of the year 2002 as the deadline for the EU's internal preparations, notably the ratification of any institutional changes which are agreed at the future IGC.
We all know that the enlargement process cannot take place unless there is some reform in the decision-making procedures within the European Union itself.
However, the deadline being set down for the next intergovernmental conference is very ambitious indeed.
I support working towards reaching an agreement by the end of next year, but equally we must not and should not hurry possible fundamental reforms to existing treaties without due consideration and evaluation.
Certainly it would be extremely difficult and impracticable to secure the support of the European public to introduce unanimity for tax harmonisation changes or for decisions concerning foreign and security matters at European Council level.
We must tread carefully on the matter of treaty reform for the simple reason that we have to guarantee that we can carry the support of the 340 million citizens in the EU for any such changes.
Turkey has also been designated as having candidate status for membership of the EU although it will have to meet the political criteria laid down for prospective accession, which of course will include proving that respect for human rights is an intrinsic part of Turkish life.
On the issue of Chechnya the European Union leaders were right to bring home to Russia the force of their anger at the brutality of Russian behaviour in the region.
A negotiated settlement is still the only real long-term solution for the securing of a peace settlement in Chechnya.
The European Union must continue to use every diplomatic avenue open to it to help halt the war in Chechnya.
Mr President, I fear that time will tell that the decision taken in Helsinki to accord Turkey candidate status for membership of the European Union is a political miscalculation that threatens to have dramatic repercussions for our Member States and for Turkey.
Whilst acknowledging that Turkey must indeed be accorded respect as an important and culturally-rich nation and friendly neighbouring country with which we want to remain on the best of terms, Turkey still does not belong in Europe.
That is only logical historically, geographically-speaking and from the point of view of common sense.
We must pluck up the courage to tell this friendly neighbouring country as much.
For historical, cultural, religious and political reasons, Turkey has never been part of European civilisation.
Quite the opposite in fact.
In Helsinki, the European countries bent over backwards yet again for American geo-political interests and for nothing else. Do I need to produce a map to remind you that only three percent of Turkey is on European soil?
How can people undermine Europe in this way and strip it of its historical identity by continuing even to consider extending candidate status to a country that lies in a different part of the world.
Finally, I would just like to say something about the logic of common sense, for a number of Member States are already struggling with a massive, almost unmanageable immigration problem.
If Turkey accedes to the European Union then the problem will grow to gigantic proportions.
This will result in an invasion of the kind that the French President Valérie Giscard d' Estaing once warned about.
That is why my party, the Flemish Block, will continue to oppose any possibility of Turkey acceding to the European Union.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit was an event of historic significance.
The EU is to get its own military rapid reaction corps. The world' s largest trading power is to begin establishing its own military force, and the world is on the way to acquiring a new superstate in addition to the USA.
To be sure, it has been agreed that the EU army is not really an EU army at all because it is not on a permanent basis, but then nor are NATO armed forces or a Eurocorps on a permanent basis either.
The EU army is the same, in having a command structure of troops and hardware to be deployed on a variety of tasks.
Let us call a spade a spade and an EU army an EU army.
With its own currency, police force and military, the EU is to dispose of the resources normally pertaining to a Nation State.
The EU already has more legislative power than other federations, and the essence of the next treaty will be more majority decision making.
We are on the way from a confederation to a federal State, but this is still only the last but one treaty before the drafting of a constitution for just such a federal State, for no-one is going to give up the right of veto in regard to the amendment of the Treaties, the levying of new taxes and the sending of soldiers off to war.
The next treaty too will contain familiar echoes of the nation States of old.
France and Britain will not be submitting their nuclear weapons to EU control.
We are to get a quasi-federal confederation dominated by the three biggest countries, Europe' s former great powers.
Enlargement will not take the form of negotiations concerned with creating a common, democratic Europe.
The first requirement of enlargement is that the Eastern and Central European countries discard everything they themselves have decided and replace it with the European Union' s common legislation, the sacred and universal acquis communautaire.
Their newly won right to deliberate on new laws in elected parliaments is to be transferred to negotiators behind more closed doors in Brussels.
Their electors and elected representatives are to surrender power to officials and ministers.
Democracy, for them, is to become the exception rather than the rule, as has also happened in our own case.
Matters need not reach this pass.
We must hope that there are people who dare to say no to the penultimate treaty before the drafting of an actual constitution and who dare to prepare the ground for replacing regimentation and centralism with a Europe of democracies and diversites.
Following this criticism, I should just like to commend the Finnish Presidency for having promoted the cause of openness by means of the Presidency' s new home pages.
These have been very useful, and I hope that the Portuguese Presidency will take its cue from this initiative.
Mr President. What struck me first as I studied the final document last weekend was its order of priority.
I understand perfectly well that the enlargement of the Union must be given priority in the wake of the upbeat tempo adopted by the Commission for the new accession strategy.
However, I would have considered it wiser for an enlargement Summit to give precedence to the matters facing the intergovernmental conference, thereby emphasising that even the tiniest enlargement will not work unless outstanding institutional questions are solved.
However, I was pleased to see that Helsinki resisted both the temptation and the intensive lobbying of the Commission and Parliament and basically concentrated the agenda of the intergovernmental conference on the famous Amsterdam leftovers.
This should ensure that other topics will not be dealt with until these have been wrapped up.
Improvements on Amsterdam in the institutional area not only concern fundamental matters, they also call for tremendous effort.
Whether or not the decision on Turkey was for the greater good of the Union and Turkey, only time will tell.
We very much doubt it.
By contrast, the progress made with the CFSP was extremely positive, even if it failed to answer a number of fundamental questions, including some of significance to Austria.
The current situation shows how vital progress is in this area.
The Union may well be seething inwardly, but in truth it stands paralysed and helpless in the face of events in Chechnya.
As far as employment policy is concerned, I expect more from the promised economic recovery, from the upswing, than from the action plans on paper.
But, all in all, Helsinki achieved an interesting result!
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council Lipponen and Commission President Romano Prodi gave us an excellent summary of the main decisions taken during the Finnish Presidency and of future tasks that lay ahead.
Although I am therefore satisfied with the Finnish Government' s strong grasp of leadership and the fact that either considerable progress was made with the key issues or they were finally resolved, it is clear that the good results of the Presidency stem from the desire by the whole of the Union to develop a common European structure.
If I also mention various disappointments, I am not blaming the Finnish Presidency for them: certain matters simply need more consideration; along the same tracks run trains of varying speed, and the heaviest loads are often the slowest.
I am very satisfied with the progress made on a common dimension for crisis management and defence.
The bases for the security of people in a democratic Union that is committed to a market economy and respect for the principle of the rule of law are economic growth, increased employment, internal security to combat crime, and a common foreign, political and military security system.
The extension of Union enlargement to all thirteen countries ended the artificial split between the applicant countries.
I would say that the decision on Turkish candidacy for membership will furthermore induce this large and important country to determine for itself whether it will ever achieve membership.
The northern dimension was overshadowed by the open crises in Kosovo and Chechnya.
I share with Mr Lipponen' s hope that Russia will become a more successful member of the global community, which would make cross-border cooperation possible on Russia' s northern border with the Union and thus give substance to the northern dimension.
The decision to promote all the possibilities of information technology to improve the Union' s competitiveness and the aim to take Europe to the number one position in the world as an information society player are both essential ingredients in the promotion of economic security.
In this area, Commissioner Liikanen will have both an interesting and mighty task ahead of him.
Among the disappointments we must once again include certain important issues with regard to the development of the single market and the Union' s decision-making system.
The tax package, even a nodding glance at the harmonisation of taxes, failed.
The idea of a European limited company could not be taken forward, and the illegal beef war in Europe continues.
Finally, I would like to raise a small but, in my own area, important matter.
Where did WADA (the World Anti Doping Agency) disappear to, beyond the reach of the Union, and the watchdog on sports-related illness and the doctor, which Commissioner Viviane Reding reported on 1 December, and in which the Union was to have a key role?
Do the Member States not fear the present and future skeletons in their own cupboards in wishing to keep the main responsibility for themselves within the territory of the Union?
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, the Helsinki Summit will go down in history because of the decisions that were taken there.
The meeting showed the way for development in Europe far into the future.
The European Union will move beyond its borders once and for all at the start of the next millennium.
The progress made from the start of talks with the six new candidates for membership, and the acceptance of Turkey as a candidate for membership has been an inevitable part of the European policy to reinforce stability and strengthen prosperity in our continent.
At the same time we have to give yet more consideration to how ready the EU itself is for enlargement and what sort of timetable might be involved.
The pace of enlargement has to be in accordance with how prepared both the applicant countries and the EU itself are. Otherwise, we will all be sorely disappointed.
The future challenges of an enlarged EU, or even one the present size, will not be solved at the next IGC.
We have to prepare for a wider agenda now.
However, it was important to decide on a new IGC to resolve the questions which were unresolved at Amsterdam.
The Helsinki meeting also bore witness to the fact that there is a need for a broader adoption of the rules for qualified majority voting.
Despite failures at Helsinki, we have to move on quickly to find a solution to the tax issue.
We will not be able to prevent even greater inequality in societies and among people unless profits from capital are subject to a minimum rate of taxation within the entire single market area.
The European Parliament has continually called for greater transparency for all the EU institutions.
A lack of transparency has been a particular source of trouble for decision making in the Council, and Finland, as the country holding the Presidency, has initiated new practices to increase transparency, practices which we would hope will become established before proper rules are drafted.
We also made headway on environmental matters.
The integration of environmental policy with all policy areas and making it feasible to sign the Kyoto Agreement more quickly were important steps forward.
But one disappointment has to be recorded for this autumn: the failure to review the rules for Members and assistants.
I know, of course, that the Presidency is not to blame for this.
The Presidency has been active and willing to find compromises; the problems and guilty parties are unfortunately to be found in this Chamber.
May I welcome the reform of the Council itself and especially the agreed programme designed to improve the performance and coordinating role of the General Affairs Council.
The extension of European Union competence into the defence field accentuates the need for improvements of the working of the Council.
It also requires the European Parliament to extend its own scope to the defence field, especially when the Western European Union Assembly is closed down, so that proper democratic scrutiny of this sensitive and controversial field will be provided.
What plans does the Presidency have to start a dialogue with Parliament upon security and defence questions, and when will the Presidency's Minister of Defence make a statement upon the development of a common policy for European security and defence?
I should be extremely grateful for a response from the Presidency upon these questions.
When you read the papers and reports from the Summit, you have to admit that George Orwell did not live in vain.
At any rate, his Ministry of Truth or the principles behind it have survived him.
Now, we no longer talk about war; we talk about humanitarian campaigns.
And an army is not called an army; 60 000 armed soldiers are a humanitarian rapid reaction corps.
In spite of the fact that the Finnish Presidency has been genuinely enthusiastic in its efforts to promote openness, the Commission has produced a document containing its own, Orwellian, notions of openness.
Openness applies only to a very limited extent and not if you ask for it too often, for example as a journalist, and intend to publish the information in question and thus actually sell newspapers. In that case, openness does not apply.
Turkey has also been processed by the Ministry of Truth.
It has now become more democratic, even if the Kurds and Turks continue to be oppressed.
Yesterday' s debate here in the Chamber concerning European culture was quite a disagreeable experience.
It was the debate which arose out of Turkey' s status as an applicant country.
What is our common European culture?
I want to say at once that I have very little in common culturally with Jörg Haider in Austria or Mr Le Pen in France or, for that matter, with my own countryman, Mogens Camre in Denmark.
I feel I have much stronger cultural ties with progressive Turks and Kurds who are fighting for justice, freedom and democracy, and I am looking forward to the day when they can be welcomed into a European working partnership.
I am looking forward to Europe' s beginning to take its multi-ethnic culture seriously, but as long as the death sentence against Mr Öçalan is still in force, this is quite the wrong moment to send the Turkish Government a signal to the effect that Turkey is welcome as an applicant country
Mr President, while it is positive that the European Union wants other countries to accede so that it can consolidate the growth of democracy there and reinforce their economic capabilities on the world market - where, let me say yet again, we must defend the distinctive character of national products, by combating type-approval and standardisation, which undoubtedly lead to the decline of individual cultures and product quality - it is just as necessary that Parliament clearly reasserts that a new country' s membership is dependent on the requirements laid down in Amsterdam actually having been implemented in that country.
In this respect, we would point out moreover, that the issue of dangerous and obsolete nuclear power plants is still unresolved. Moreover, Parliament has already taken a position on this.
It is just as obvious though, that enlargement in the envisaged timeframe does not allow either for the immediate creation of a common foreign policy or the drawing-up of an economic policy programme, even though the latter is very urgent, especially in the light of the recovery of the dollar against the euro and the disappointing results of Seattle.
Therefore, it is with regret that we must tailor our former hopes to current requirements, and the only solution seems to be to undertake a new type of agreement, within the Union and before it accepts new members, countries which have the same interest in a Common Foreign and Defence Policy, in common laws that will guarantee the fight against crime, drugs, uncontrolled immigration, countries that want to regain their common right to campaign against violations of human rights by taking active steps to combat cruelty and genocide.
The choice made at Helsinki to set up one of the first units of a European army is heading in the right direction and must be supported by Parliament, in the hope that the initiative will not stop at this first step.
This hypothesis, which we are putting forward in the hope that those who agree with the same objectives are finally starting to discuss possible new agreements, must not be confused with the notion of a multi-speed Europe, but should instead be thought of as a two-tiered Union.
We are proposing a political level for the current Member States which choose to make a great leap forward in this sector, and a second, economic level for the fifteen current Member States and the new members.
Obviously, with time, anyone who makes the request and meets the requirements will be able to take their place at the political level, but today, if we do not proceed quickly in this direction and consider enlarging by almost doubling the number of Member States without well thought out and tested institutional reforms - there is no time left to test them out - we are sounding the death knoll for the dream of a political Union which is able to respect identities, cultures and traditions, but nevertheless contributes to the creation of a new model of European citizen.
It is clear that for some, enlargement does not mean strengthening the Union but watering it down, marking the end of the hopes of our founding fathers.
Finally, I would like to extend an invitation to the Commission so that it avoids continuing to propose measures on asparagus and lupins and instead seeks to give us a political and economic plan before it becomes a laughing stock.
Mr President, firstly a premise which, I believe, is true for every one of us, but most especially for our President, Nicole Fontaine.
I feel the matter of the status that the two Members of Parliament will have at the Intergovernmental Conference is quite intolerable.
We cannot accept it, and our President should make this known.
This is the status of NGO.
Do we wish to be and to continue to be an NGO?
We would be, like the NGOs, mere observers.
I think it high time that Parliament knew how to say no to this state of affairs.
More generally, I find your memory rather selective, ladies and gentlemen.
At Amsterdam, the conference concluded with the fact that if we were to number more than 20 members, we should have to implement at least three reforms.
This is no longer the scenario.
The current scenario envisages 27 Member States and yet more in the years to come, requiring much, much more far-reaching reforms.
By accepting these conclusions, we are making ourselves, Council and Parliament, accessories to a policy which will prove to be extremely serious in the years to come, and which will bring the entire European Union to a halt.
This Parliament cannot pretend it does not understand or that it is not aware of this policy.
We cannot, as some of my fellow Members have said, consider that we can discuss matters with the Portuguese Presidency when we already know there is a majority in the Council ready to oppose adding items to the agenda.
We must use the only weapon available to us, and if Mr Barnier does not agree to call it an all out strike, then let us call it resistance.
In any case, we cannot defer until June the battle that we must wage in January.
Our problem is the opinion which we must deliver prior to the start of the Intergovernmental Conference, i.e. as early as January.
We could, of course, act complacently, we could pretend to close our eyes and to believe that we might convince the Portuguese Presidency, which in turn may convince the other Member States.
We can delude ourselves.
We have already done so often enough. Now, perhaps, it is time for Parliament to wake up.
As regards enlargement, I think we are insulting a number of countries, without even being aware of it. We extended candidacy to Turkey.
This is fine, even if, as always, it was done too late. But we are abandoning countries such as Albania, Macedonia and Croatia, even though there is no reason to abandon them, since we decided that each country might enter the Union when it has implemented the necessary reforms.
We must extend candidacy to these countries as a matter of urgency, just as, as a matter of urgency, we must recognise that Chechnya is not located somewhere on the moon, but in a region of Europe, in the Transcaucasus.
It is a matter of urgency that Europe should have a policy worthy of the name in this region, otherwise, just like the Balkans over the last ten years, we shall see it becoming a region of war and destruction, as is already the case in Chechnya today.
Mr President, the Finnish Presidency has, without doubt, taken the development of the European Community forward.
However, European security policy must be seen as one of the failures of the European Community in the light of its reaction to the centres of conflict in Chechnya and Grozny.
We as a European Union will only gain credibility with the outside world and with our own people once we stop making too much of a distinction between various centres of conflict.
One of the problems as I see it, however, is in relation to the human rights of the various minorities within the Union, especially with regard to freedom of worship.
There are still huge differences within the European Member States as far as the recognition of religious minorities is concerned.
For example, it is at present practically impossible for Orthodox Jewish communities in Germany to set themselves up as an independent community.
The incoming presidency will have a special responsibility to regulate the rights of religious communities within the EU.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the European Commission, I am only too happy to second the positive statements made by our group chairman Hans-Gert Poettering and Mrs Suominen.
I am not going to repeat them.
But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you also said that the Helsinki Summit did not deliver the goods.
I thought that was a very apt way of characterising the situation.
I shall just cite three disappointing outcomes.
My first example is the IGC.
Mr Poettering has rightly already pointed out that the three Amsterdam leftovers do in fact represent a very minimal package, and in particular, that the question of qualified majority decision making is still a major point of discussion in the Council.
The door is already slightly ajar, but on no account must we lose sight of the fact that the Helsinki Summit failed to adopt the recommendations of the Committee of Wise Men under the direction of Mr Dehaene following the excellent proposals prepared by the European Commission under the direction of Commissioner Barnier.
This was a very disappointing development in my view and so I really hope that the Commission and Parliament are in a position to convince the Portuguese Council Presidency that we need to go a little further than is the case at present.
Of course security is another area that still needs to be properly resolved.
What exactly is Mr Solana' s role and what is the European Commission' s role?
If you take a look at the annexes then what you will see are numerous questions relating to the whole issue of democratic control. What does the European Parliament intend to do?
What do the national parliaments intend to do?
The taxation package certainly was not a key issue but then how can you face the citizens with the news that after so many years the slight increase in taxation of capital that we need is still outstanding.
Three thousand jobs are given priority in one Member State but not in others.
That is not what solidarity is all about and neither is it something we can defend.
I therefore hope that Mr Prodi will take the lead during the next Presidency, so as to ensure that the Member States get the message at long last.
Mr President, an historic decision has indeed been taken in Helsinki.
It is a cheque made out to the future and, to be frank, neither you nor we know how we can honour it.
After the unanimous vote on the enlargement process, no further doubt can or will be cast on the seriousness of our intentions and of Turkey' s intention to meet the Copenhagen criteria as quickly as possible.
It is the will of the Helsinki Summit that the European Union should number 28 Member States in a few years' time.
However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, a number of questions then arise as to the scope of the decisions which have been taken.
Do you really believe that, once the Amsterdam leftovers have been cleared up, our Union will still have the power to act and will still be transparent and democratic with 27 or 28 Member States?
Do you really believe that we can maintain the present language rules in our institutions with 15, 16, 17 or 18 languages?
Do you believe that we can maintain the present internal modus operandi of our institutions, of the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission and the balance between them with 27 or 28 Member States?
Do you really believe that Turkey, the European country with the largest population and a long history its own, will merely join the European Union as its 28th Member State rather than changing the very nature of it?
Do we not need a plan for moving the Schengen borders to the Euphrates and Tigris?
Do we not need a plan for dealing with accession applications received by the European Union from the States of Eastern Europe and the Caucasus in the wake of the Helsinki decision?
And for dealing with Russia if we receive accession applications from the States of that region?
I trust that we will find the flexibility within the European Union, the flexibility which has so far completely eluded us - what we previously described as flexibility notwithstanding - in order to safeguard the cohesion of the European Union.
I trust that we shall, over coming years, find the strength and the courage to answer these questions and to find answers of our own before others find them for us.
Mr President, we hoped that, after the Berlin Wall came down, certain limits could be placed upon the atrocities committed in the world.
That is why we intervened in Kosovo where an odious regime was in the process of driving out a whole people; and that is why we were delighted when Indonesia' s atrocities in East Timor were eventually brought to an end.
But now we are seeing, in Chechnya, ruthless state terror directed against an entire population.
We see an army combating terrorism by razing towns to the ground and causing hundreds of thousands of people to flee.
We see a government and a presidential candidate courting popularity by pounding what they perceive as the Chechen enemy into the ground, and we see how, in the election campaign in Russia, there is almost no opposition to this cruel strategy.
In the EU, we have been too weak in our protests and with our sanctions and, in that way, have betrayed the liberal and democratic forces in Russia.
Thanks are due to the Council for the fact that it is now finally speaking plainly about Russia' s flagrant breach of a whole range of international obligations.
It is now a question of the Council' s honouring its words. Everything must be done to enable us to help bring this barbarism to an end and to ensure that vital humanitarian aid is provided to hundreds of thousands of civilians.
This century has been terrible enough, but the end of the century has also been full of promise.
The issue where Chechnya is concerned is really one of whether this is to be the last tragic convulsion of an unhappy century or the start of a new century which is just as tragic.
Mr President, I thank every one for the kind comments they have made here regarding Finland, as the country holding the Presidency, but at the same time I would also like to thank people for the criticisms that have been made.
Much attention has been paid in the discussion to the Intergovernmental Conference and the need to reform the Treaties.
At the European Council in Helsinki it was the Council' s opinion that a decision on the Intergovernmental Conference should be arrived at quite quickly, and, if possible, by the end of next year, so that there will be time to ratify the agreements and enlargement can get under way.
I think there are two considerations here, which I want to focus attention on.
Firstly, the three issues left over from Amsterdam are by no means trivial matters.
There has already been talk here of increasing qualified majority decision making.
The fact that it is on the agenda means, as I understand it, that we have to go in that direction.
But that too is a huge question of principle, and after we have drafted this agenda it will then be met with the differing opinions of Member States.
However, the door has been left open a crack and at the Intergovernmental Conference the discussion will turn to whether we need to raise other important matters relating to amendments to Treaties, so that the European Council can debate this issue again.
I would like to mention another consideration here: do we believe that enlargement should be postponed?
As I understand it, we are facing such constitutional questions with regard to Treaty changes that, as national parliaments ratify these sorts of decisions, we will have to have sufficient time to debate the issues in the Member States and we will have to involve national parliaments in these reforms.
That will not be an easy task.
I fully acknowledge this and I would like to thank Romano Prodi, the President of the Commission, for having had the courage to raise these matters.
They are important for the future of Europe.
They have to be discussed in the near future but we cannot do everything at once, and that is the problem here.
The issue of language is an example of something that must be discussed with maturity and courage.
As a representative of a small country I can say that we have to be prepared.
There has been much discussion here on security and defence policy.
To the question of whether defence ministers should come here, I cannot say no, but I would point out that the General Affairs Council handles these matters, and so defence ministers can participate if need be.
It is quite understandable and necessary that the European Parliament should wish to focus attention on these matters, and I agree with Mr Poettering that we should not dilly-dally in this.
For that reason, in Finland we are most satisfied that we were able, during the Finnish Presidency, to have a decision on this in such a ready state that we will have a policy on the matter from now on.
Perhaps Mr Seppänen has not read the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We are acting within the framework of the Treaty of Amsterdam in this matter.
The Helsinki conclusions state that there is no question of a European army, and we are not really creating any sort of crisis management capability or crisis management force that would go out warmongering.
Mr Suominen raised the issue of the northern dimension.
In this matter we achieved Finland' s goal, as the country to hold the presidency, which was that agreed by the Member States and the partnership countries at a conference in Helsinki on a previous occasion for the drafting of an action programme.
The European Council in Helsinki reconfirmed this.
In Finland, we are obviously satisfied with this, but once again I would like to stress that in Europe we have a southern, eastern and western dimension, just as much as a northern one.
They are all issues we have in common.
The northern dimension is very much about long-term effective cooperation with Russia, which is a great advantage for us both and absolutely irrespective of what is happening in Russia and Chechnya at the moment.
The subject of sport has been raised here.
Where did sport get to at the Summit?
Sport is without doubt socially significant and an important thing for millions of Europeans.
I consider it necessary to return to this subject.
It is obviously a question of competence and the fact that here issues are discussed from many points of view.
There is the point of view of the single market - we will recall the Bosman case - and there is the point of view of health, which is related to the issue of dope testing.
On the whole this matter should be prepared for debate, and the European Council, for that reason, did not want to adopt a position on this in the conclusions, as the necessary preparatory work and debate were lacking.
Finally, as a sort of legacy of the Finnish Presidency, I hope that all the institutions of the Union will take the issue of transparency and good governance seriously.
I understand that we are dealing with different cultures.
No country can say that they do things best.
We must understand one another, but the direction must clearly be towards greater transparency.
When we were putting the Treaty of Amsterdam together, Finland' s idea and suggestion, which was accepted, was that transparency should be the first principle, and there should be exceptions made to it and not the other way round.
It is also in this spirit that we should prepare matters for debate in the future.
Interinstitutional balance is very important.
We Finns, in discharging our duties as President, gained a lot of experience of this, and I would hope that instead of the institutions competing with one another regarding who has achieved what and who was first, we can concentrate more on cooperation, because that is what we need.
Each institution has a very important job to do.
From the point of view of a small country we need a strong Commission.
We should have the sort of Council that functions well and in which the main objective is the common interest.
The European Parliament then has to oversee all this.
Here new ideas can be put forward.
This is a forum in which Europeans meet to discuss the important issues of the future.
On behalf of Finland, I would again like to thank everyone for all the support we have been given by all the institutions and all the Member States of the European Union.
I should like to take this opportunity on behalf of Parliament, through you, to express our thanks to your officials for all the good cooperation we have had during the last six months.
.
(IT) I will take the floor again very briefly, Mr President, to make some points about the previous debate.
I can see that there is an almost unanimous feeling of disappointment over the failed agreement on tax matters, and I believe that the reasons for this are broadly shared.
There was also almost universal agreement about Chechnya and the need for us not to have double standards in our foreign policy, but to reassert the principles which are the cornerstone of the European Union.
Moreover, there is a generally favourable opinion of the European Union' s rapid intervention force, even if there were some who disagreed over this. It has always been the tradition to disagree, not only in the European Parliament but also in many national parliaments, when it comes to issues relating in some way to military matters, and the possibility of having a European army.
Nevertheless, I would like to comment briefly on the more controversial subject of the Intergovernmental Conference.
I have to say that the Commission is not in any way being excluded from decisions on the Intergovernmental Conference, and I also have to say that Parliament' s role has been increased, with respect to Amsterdam, even if the progress is less than stated by the Commission and the President of Parliament during the Helsinki debate.
But some progress has been made, and we can analyse it objectively: two representatives of the European Parliament will participate in all the talks and will be able to intervene at the beginning and end of each meeting at the Intergovernmental Conference; in addition, in each meeting of this type there will be talks between the President of Parliament and the Heads of State and Government.
This is minimal progress, but I assure you - and this is the important message I want to give you - that in this area, the Commission and the President of Parliament have taken the same line on increasing the presence of Parliament itself.
I think that this is a route we should pursue.
We must therefore say that the direction we have been heading in is the right one, even though the pace is extremely slow compared with the pace we had set ourselves.
However, we must not only look to the past: this is some advice, a lesson with a view what we have to do in the coming six months.
Leaving the door open as regards the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference also provides an opportunity for the Commission and Parliament to cooperate in bringing in the reforms that we want via that door.
Before the Helsinki Conference, the door was closed; its opening is not, of course, a particularly significant result, but it is a lot more than we had expected and a lot more than was going to be allowed before the start of the Conference.
We must therefore learn a lesson as regards working together over the coming months.
We need to cooperate closely, precisely because it is through this door that the necessary reforms can come.
As for the rest, I will conclude with an observation on enlargement.
It is true, as Mr Poettering said, that time will tell whether or not it will be historic, but the decision is an important one.
As a consequence of this decision, we shall have to change a large number of our rules and current points of reference; we shall have to change a lot about our life, our culture, our budgets, our positions - everything we are doing.
It is a decision which has yet to be implemented.
On the other hand, it is clear that it will take years and a thorough analysis, because we need to reassure the public in the countries that are joining the Union, by showing them the real situation here, and making an accurate and serious comparison of legal, economic, political and transparency issues.
In short, we have started a process that will take us to an historic conclusion.
We have not yet reached it, but what we decided at Helsinki will have an enormous bearing on the work of Parliament and the work of the European Commission.
This is another area we must work on together so that a virtuous circle will come of it, and so that politics as well as the economy - both ours and of the countries that have applied for membership - can grow together and expand in the future.
Mr President, I rise to say that this has been an extremely short debate.
We have heard the replies of the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission, who replied to the speakers who had already taken the floor.
I cannot see the point in continuing this debate.
I do not think it wise to proceed in this way in Parliament.
In my opinion, the debate closed with the replies by the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission, so I request that you remove my name from the list of speakers.
(Applause)
(The debate was suspended for a formal sitting at 10.30 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
Annex: Inauguration ceremony for the Louise Weiss Building
Mr President, I am glad that at least Mr Patten is here to follow this important debate, because there are urgent matters which require discussion.
The Council has at last joined the flock and declared sanctions on Russia.
But given the length of time the war has already been waging in the Caucasus, this decision is, of course, far too late to bring any real solution to the conflict.
Given the massive expulsion of the civil population, it is far too weak a measure.
We have to imagine what is happening over there.
Ingushetia currently has more refugees than the indigenous population, with no humanitarian aid to compare with Kosovo.
Kosovo had humanitarian aid, here there is nothing.
That is the situation.
Which is why the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement must be suspended immediately.
Russia must be excluded from the G8 Summit and its government must not receive any more credit until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found.
Exactly what sort of a foreign policy do we have at the moment?
It is true that military forces are being planned, but a decision on an early end to the crisis has been delayed for weeks.
Europe must not just be the Europe of oil multinationals; it must also become the Europe of human rights, which is why we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are calling for a conference on the Caucasus in collaboration with the OSCE so that a contribution to peace in this region can finally be made.
We shall continue discussions with human rights representatives from Chechnya, including discussions of projects.
I hope that the Commission will give proper support in this matter by making a contribution to peace and prevention in the region, because that is far more important than the military forces decided on in Helsinki.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council has taken a significant step towards the militarisation of the European Union with its decision to develop the military crisis management corps.
The European Union has shown just how well it understands these crises by contributing to the disintegration of Yugoslavia, particularly with its barbarous and murderous attacks on the Yugoslav people.
It has shown its understanding by taking part in the occupation of Kosovo and in its continuing efforts to overturn the democratically-elected Yugoslav leadership.
The Council has decided to curtail democracy still further by abolishing the unanimity rule, even on extremely important issues.
The decision to extend candidate status to Turkey is, without a doubt, a political gesture towards the Turkish regime, despite the fact that it has made no move whatsoever towards fulfilling the conditions set by the European Union itself.
The Council is encouraging Turkey to continue with its violations of human rights, its genocide of the Kurdish people, its occupation of 38% of Cypriot territory and its territorial claims in the Aegean.
At the same time, it is thwarting the struggle of the Turkish people, for whom we feel solidarity.
The decisions in Helsinki illustrate quite clearly that behind the show of democracy and behind the lofty words on human rights lurk the creeping fascism of imperialist interests and violence against anybody who resists the new order of things.
However, the people of Europe are gradually overcoming their torpor following the overthrow of socialism in Europe and are preparing for a counter-attack.
Mr President, I think that what took place in Helsinki can be interpreted in a number of very different ways.
For example, in the field of enlargement, some will be pleased that Turkey has been granted applicant status and others will not be so pleased.
But it surely cannot be denied that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has made significant advances in the field of common foreign and security policy by reorganising the duties of the Council, by clearly promoting non-military crisis management, by adopting a common strategy with regard to Ukraine and also by approving a statement on Chechnya, although we would have liked it to have been a little more forceful and I believe that in time we will be proved right.
Nevertheless, it must be said that, from the point of view of the institutions and the Intergovernmental Conference, the results are nothing to boast about and they prompt us to adopt one of two possible attitudes.
The first, clearly, is, as we say in my language, "to cry over spilt milk" , whilst the second - somewhat more realistic - would be to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Summit statement and to try to persevere in our objectives.
I would take this approach and, to this end, I think that we should try to re-establish that amicable partnership between the Commission and Parliament, who were unable to secure acceptance of their views at the Helsinki Summit.
I really believe that this Parliament, with the assistance of a slightly bolder and more ambitious Commission and, (to be frank), one which is a little more committed to reforming the institutions, could ensure that the misunderstandings of the past give way to more harmonious relations in the future and that we will all be able to promote the reform of the European Union, knowing, as we do, that if we ignore the concerns of the general public, these reforms will never come about and will never be a success.
Mr President, the logical starting point for the key decisions by the European Council was enlargement.
So what did the Council do?
It completely overturned the enlargement doctrine applied hitherto. Now, we no longer have teams of candidates one after the other but just one race for all the candidate countries together, with Turkey as a candidate country now included.
My group, the Coalition, and I personally feel that, in principle, this is a change for the better. Nevertheless, both the Commission and the Council must remember that relations with Turkey are now Euro-Turkish relations and not Graeco-Turkish relations, as they have either hypocritically or maladroitly maintained in the past.
I would also point out, Mr President, that as the Union' s borders are expanding, a large black hole is forming in the Balkans.
This black hole includes both Serbia and many other countries and is right at the heart of the new geographical area you are building.
Is this political short-sightedness or pure vindictiveness? I, for one, do not know.
Finally, yet another intergovernmental conference and reform of the Treaty have been announced to address the issue of enlargement.
Yet another reform, yet another intergovernmental conference, with no Community approach, no role for the Commission and a meaningless role for Parliament, with no consultation with national parliaments and, finally, with no transparency and no accountability towards the civil society.
Is this how we are to increase the prestige and appeal of European unification?
Have the Heads of State and Government and the Community bodies not learned anything from Seattle?
Mr President, the Summit was indeed historic, especially regarding defence and enlargement, if not the IGC.
The Union is at last facing up to challenges to security in Europe.
I should like to refer in particular to Turkey.
I now accept that making Turkey a formal candidate will help speed up an improvement in Turkey's record on democracy and human rights, concern about which reflects not hostility towards Turkey but attachment to its future in Europe.
Turkish failure to recognise the rights of the Kurds is the biggest single reason for its breaches of European democratic and human rights norms and the pretext for its military-dominated state.
So it is astonishing that neither the OSCE Summit declaration nor the Helsinki conclusions make any reference to the Kurds.
Turkey cannot meet European values or ensure security while it denies the different identity of its Kurdish citizens.
I welcome signals that Abdullah Öçalan's death sentence may be lifted; but the EU must make clear that if he is executed, accession negotiations cannot proceed.
We must insist the Turkish authorities respond to the PKK cease-fire and make moves to political settlement, recognising Kurdish cultural and democratic rights.
Finally, the UK Government must not give export credit funding to the Ilisu dam, which threatens to be a human rights disaster for the Kurds as well as an ecological disaster.
Mr President, the European Summit was less of a success than has been suggested here this morning.
The decisions on enlargement, the intervention force and Turkey' s application for EU membership are positive, but the words used to describe the IGC conceal a great lack of political will.
The agenda is still open in theory, but there is nothing to suggest that the governments really want fundamental change.
On the contrary, so far none of the Commission or Parliament proposals have been followed up.
I would very much like the Finnish Presidency to explain why this is so.
It is essential for there to be general majority decision making and increased cooperation.
The lack of political will to make this unequivocal choice will paralyse the decision-making process as soon as Europe undergoes enlargement.
Those who block fundamental reform want to keep Europe small, even though they might claim otherwise.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit took account of the proposal for a charter of rights.
Today President Chirac made clear his view that an enlarged Europe must be built around respect for rights.
We agree with that, but we insist that a democratic European Union must be built on the rule of law as an equal partner with a charter of rights.
My SNP colleague Mr Hudghton and I did not join in the discourteous and petulant walk-out from President Chirac's speech this morning.
As a result, Mr Hudghton was able to put to President Chirac our point of view and get an undertaking for a possible reply to a letter we sent yesterday.
Another issue alive is that of enlarging the Union.
We share enthusiasm for enlargement provided proper institutional reform goes ahead.
It should, however, be remembered that there are not only nations in Eastern and Central Europe seeking entry, there are ancient nations in Western Europe too, represented here by the European Free Alliance, which seek fair recognition as members in Europe.
Our claims deserve better than an embarrassed silence that contrasts with the welcome others receive.
Reform of the institutions must create space for due recognition of existing regions and unrepresented nations.
We used to hear a lot about the Europe of the regions, a phrase less in use nowadays than a few years ago.
Not only did the Helsinki Council make paltry progress toward curing Europe's democratic deficit, but it did nothing at all about what ought to be recognised as a regional deficit.
Our task in the European Free Alliance is to get it recognised and cured with the help of our colleagues in the Greens/European Free Alliance.
Mr President, Commissioner, unfortunately there are no ministers here!
I should like to describe the Summit in maritime terms.
The launch was a great success when it came to the major projects which were got under way. There was no friction in the launch.
But even though the launch has been successful, it is not known whether the ship is seaworthy and whether it will survive the storms to which it is exposed.
I am thinking especially here of the enlargement of the European Union.
How will this succeed?
In the Summit' s conclusions, clear reservations are expressed about the applicant countries to the effect that several of them do not even fulfil the Copenhagen criteria in the medium to long term and that, in March, an assessment should be made of how the economic criteria are being fulfilled.
I think it is important for the future of the enlargement that we look to how the applicant countries achieve good administration and combat corruption and whether they have stable institutions. The most important thing is not therefore that we should go through the acquis communautaire in detail.
You see, it is not doing this which will decide whether the Union can be enlarged and whether the applicant countries are ready to enter the EU. Rather, it is the answers to the basic questions I have just listed.
We really need a different approach to that which was adopted during the last enlargement when Sweden, Finland and Austria became members.
Mr President, in my view, the problems and issues to be addressed following the Helsinki Summit fall into two basic entities.
The first is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and it is particularly sad that, following the Helsinki Summit and following the extensive debates held here in the European Parliament, the Presidency conclusions concerning the Intergovernmental Conference are so brief.
Perhaps they are not quite as brief as we had feared but they are much briefer than what we consider necessary for the European Union to prepare itself sufficiently for the passage from the 20th to the 21st century.
Mr President, it is clear that, this time more than ever, the Intergovernmental Conference and the review of the founding Treaties of the European Union are directly related to another important European Union decision: enlargement.
And since the European Union is about to take on board a large number of States - 13 in total - it would make sense to begin preparations to receive these States.
The question which arises from the Presidency conclusions is whether or not the commitments, yes the commitments, and the opinions in those conclusions allow the European Union to prepare itself to receive these new States.
I am afraid the answer is no.
In a number of resolutions, the European Parliament has already indicated how extensive these changes and reforms of the Treaties would have to be.
And the European Parliament will, of course, continue to indicate the way forward given that, as I said before, the decisions of the Helsinki Summit on the Intergovernmental Conference are clearly, and unfortunately, far too limited in scope.
There was no mention of the direction the European Union should be taking nor of the vision it should have.
There was no mention of the approach it should be adopting.
There was no mention of a number of new issues which are, if you like, the main goals and problems facing us in the 21st century.
As for enlargement, which is clearly a very important process and one which must be continued, integrated and completed, a new candidate country is now involved in this process: Turkey.
At this point in time, Turkey has been granted a new status, that of a candidate country.
However, at the same time, a number of conditions have been laid down which Turkey must fulfil before it can become a member of the European Union.
It is important that these conditions be fulfilled.
It is important that Turkey shows, in its desire to become a member of the European family, that it really does respect human rights, democracy and its neighbouring countries and that it truly wishes to find a calm and peaceful solution to any issues or problems which exist in relation to it.
Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has given scant attention to the OSCE Summit Conference that was held recently, this morning.
Other Helsinki matters took precedence.
The OSCE has to operate in the shadow of the EU and NATO, which have a much higher public profile.
The most important person to take the floor - in inverted commas - during the Istanbul Summit was President Yeltsin, who came to explain his policy towards Chechnya.
This explanation was unsatisfactory, it is true, but the Russians appear to regard the OSCE as the only organisation in Europe that they should give account to and which should be given access to the region.
In point of fact, the President of the OSCE has gone to Chechnya today.
The Russians obviously feel that they have equal standing there.
NATO is unpopular in Russia, which means that the Partnership for Peace Programme is too.
Opinion polls would suggest that the majority of Russians do have respect for the EU though.
That will probably change after Helsinki.
The OSCE is based on certain principles that were expanded on in Istanbul.
In some internal conflicts and where there are grave violations of human rights, the OSCE can and may take action before actual violence breaks out.
On this basis the OSCE can start playing a more wide-ranging role as a non-exclusive and civil pan-European organisation, also as a forum for open dialogue with Russia.
The OSCE affords a preventative instrument that can be employed where there is the potential for crisis.
The High Commissioner has carried out a great deal of good work for minorities, the OSCE is mediating between government and opposition in Belarus and is helping to find a solution to the problems in Moldavia. The OSCE is also encouraging further reductions in conventional weapons.
The EU ought to pay more attention to OSCE values.
Together we can achieve a great deal.
Chechnya is an example of a conflict that could spread to the whole Caucasus region.
I believe we are failing to give this enough attention.
The European Union' s policy with respect to the countries in this region is fragmented. Why does the EU not use the OSCE in order to achieve a stability pact for the Caucasus with these countries, the Russian Federation, the United States and Turkey?
If another war breaks out there we must not be able to reproach ourselves for yet again having been too late.
Mr President, hardworking Finnish diplomacy has also endeavoured over the last six months to make progress on the employment and social side of the Community.
The creation of an Employment Committee increases the potential for Member States to improve coordination between their policies in this area.
On behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I welcome the fact that the presidency has prepared proper employment guidelines for 2000 at various councils of ministers and ministerial conferences.
Nonetheless, several national governments and the Council have not come fully on board.
As a result, only a small proportion of Parliament' s proposals on the guidelines was adopted in Helsinki.
Parliament wanted to achieve more in the fight against unemployment among the young and long-term unemployment than the Council was proposing; above all, we wanted to achieve permanent integration into the job market by reinforcing the ratio of active to passive measures, in other words, by increasing the proportion of the unemployed in training, further training or retraining, because a lack of jobs is only one side of the coin.
The other reason for unemployment in the European Union is the lack of professional qualifications.
I should like to thank the Finnish Presidency for helping to improve the coordination of European employment policy.
But the Community still has no long-term employment strategy to develop Community potential in terms of creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship, the willingness to invest and the work ethic.
Reforms to bolster dynamic competitiveness and flexibility need to be reconciled with the need both to maintain and to modernise the social security system.
We see the European model as a social order for the social market economy.
Mr President, the economic factor has always taken precedence in the building of Europe.
Without a doubt, its greatest achievements are the single currency and the creation of the European Central Bank.
Aside from their strictly economic significance, which is huge, these institutions are positive proof to the people that the creation of new Community institutions, entrusted with exercising integrated policies in place of the governments or the national bodies of the Member States, is not a betrayal but a more efficient way of jointly exercising national sovereignty.
The lesson learned from the single currency gives us an invaluable weapon for deepening our institutions further, which is essential if we wish to promote enlargement of the Union without endangering its cohesion.
These new and necessary institutional developments or completely new institutions, such as the particularly important military corps that has just been decided on, could lead to dilemmas as to how to divide power between national and Community authorities. But let us not forget the message of EMU: Community institutions are only successful when the principle of subsidiarity is applied and when the power of the larger partners is counterbalanced by protecting the rights of the smaller partners.
All this is arming us for the unusually ambitious enlargement process.
It is not about patching together new pieces of territory, it is about assimilation and transformation under the influence of a Union of truly integrated human societies.
It took a great deal of courage on the part of the Turkish Government to accept the challenge of becoming a candidate country, as a result of which huge social changes are inevitable and will certainly include satisfactory restoration of the rights of the Kurdish nation.
It also took a great deal of courage on the part of the Greek Government and of Prime Minister Costas Simitis to bet on the success of this change, to trust in the possibility of a good outcome and to put out its hand to Turkey and agree to do business with it just as it does business with its European partners, the members of the Union.
Undoubtedly, the fact that Cyprus has been guaranteed unimpeded accession played a large part in the Greek Government' s decision.
All this gives us hope that a new chapter was opened in Helsinki and that this new chapter will be crowned with success.
Mr President, needless to say, I am extremely pleased that the Council has confirmed the viewpoint which was also posited by the Commission, namely that the enlargement of the European Union will be a process in which all Central European countries which have applied for membership will be involved without any discrimination and on the basis of their own merits.
I am pleased that the old biased approach is no longer being pursued.
Although we used to be a European economic community, we now realise that the essence of our alliance is that we are a union of democratic constitutional States.
This is a significant change in our way of thinking and reverts back to the original ideals of European integration.
I think it is important that the Central and Eastern European countries should know that they are joining a smoothly-running Union.
This is why it is so vital that we do our homework and that we cannot get out of it by some excuse like: are we not holding the candidate countries hostage to our reforms?
Formulated in this way, it is viewed in completely the wrong manner because those who wish to offer the Central and Eastern European countries a heap of rubble generally tend to object to European integration.
Mr President, Turkey needs a great deal more attention and I am willing to allow for that.
It has now been granted official candidate status.
We have noted this with little enthusiasm.
It appears that it is difficult to change Turkey' s political culture.
The Turkish Government has already stipulated demands before Turkey can accept its Member State candidacy.
This is the culture of brute force, the culture of the big mouth and not the type of culture that we want. Not from a Member State and certainly not from a candidate country.
In our opinion, the European Union should also make it very clear to Turkey that the treatment it will receive will certainly not be more flexible than that of Slovakia, for example, where the change-over from one government to another was, in fact, a great deal more relaxed.
Turkey will have no choice but to make drastic changes and make steps towards the European Union. There is as yet no evidence of such steps being made.
The European Union should not make the same mistake as the Council of Europe which accepted Turkey some time ago whilst Turkey blatantly contravened the criteria to become a member of the Council of Europe, such as the criteria relating to the protection of minorities and human rights.
Mr President, although it is said that Turkey falls outside the EU borders, in my view, the borders of the European Union coincide with those where democratic constitutional states exist.
It is not so much a new territorial Yalta as an underlining of every effort to bolster the constitutional state.
Mr President, Commissioner. I am most glad to see Commissioner Patten here today because we were in Turkey a few days ago as the official Parliament delegation.
His interview in Der Spiegel caused a furore.
Perhaps as the result less of what he said than of what Der Spiegel added.
Since meeting him for the first time in Hong Kong, I have held Commissioner Patten in the highest regard on account of his open, unconventional approach.
However, I feel that perhaps a few matters need to be cleared up.
Firstly, I am most grateful to the Commission for preparing the Summit, the outcome of which showed that it had made a clear statement and had not dodged the issue.
Turkey is a candidate.
As far as I am concerned, that means quite unequivocally that Turkey has to start behaving like a candidate; in other words, the necessary changes must be made.
As Mr Oostlander said, Europe stops where human rights violations begin; at least, I know what he meant.
I also trust that human rights are accepted outside Europe. But the reverse is of course true.
A country can only belong to the Europe of the European Union if it accepts human rights.
No other way forward is possible.
Our task is to prepare, support and help Turkey along this path.
But we at least made clear in our discussions with all the party chairmen and other politicians in Turkey that Turkey has to do the work.
These changes are in Turkey' s own interest.
They want and hopefully they will be able to function better, more quickly and more comprehensively with Europe.
But we cannot do the work for Turkey.
I believe that the Commission should now draw up specific annual programmes - I hope with maximum input from Parliament - containing indications as to how Turkey can set about this work and how we can help.
Turkey must state clearly that it intends to abolish the death penalty next year or in two years' time and that it intends to release its political prisoners over this period and deal with the Kurdish question during this period.
The fact is that Turkey has only acknowledged in discussions over recent weeks and months that there even is a Kurdish question.
How it intends to solve this problem, it does not yet know, that is not yet understood.
But I believe that there has already been a great deal of progress.
The Helsinki Summit, at which Greece above all behaved in an exemplary manner and at which, in the end, Turkey too behaved in a reasonable manner, went very well on this question but the work is not yet finished.
In fact it has only just begun.
The best decision to come out of Helsinki is that we are now able to start work.
Mr President, today is a great day for Strasbourg.
I would disagree with Mrs Maij-Weggen.
I believe that Strasbourg is the independent and parliamentary face of a cultural Europe which has freed itself from bureaucracy and, in this respect, I am very happy about events here today.
We could put an end to the travelling circus without changing the Treaty, by doing away with the superfluous mini plenary sittings in Brussels.
We can do so quite independently. We would start saving money almost immediately.
I invite Mrs Maij-Weggen to support me in this.
As far as the Council is concerned, I take the view that Helsinki was a Summit of peaks and troughs.
One peak was, without a doubt, the clear signal to the second group of central and eastern European countries that they were no longer isolated and that negotiations would be started with them.
I welcome this in particular in the case of Slovakia and the Baltic States.
However, the decision on Chechnya was also extremely important.
Parliament demanded quite clearly two and a half months ago that the Council suspend parts of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and transfer financial aid and the TACIS programme to humanitarian assistance in order to bring home to Russia that it can no longer continue this genocide.
We were opposed at the time in no uncertain terms.
I am very glad that the Council is now living up to the standard which we in Parliament tried to set two and a half months ago.
I would ask the Council and the Commission to ensure that TACIS aid is transferred at once, because we can no longer back a mixture of bloodthirsty election campaigning and bloodthirsty colonial war.
We want Russia as a partner, but only as a partner which respects human rights.
This Parliament stands for a Europe of human rights, as Mr Oostlander said.
Russia can only be a partner if it ceases this genocide immediately.
Mr President, measures and other resolutions on enlargement, on security and defence policy and on the convening of an intergovernmental conference were taken in Helsinki.
All three together may have an historic dimension; however, they may also jeopardise the political project called Europe if we fail to answer the question of where overstretching may mark the end of political union and when the incapacity to act cannot be rectified.
It is precisely for this reason that the intergovernmental conference is so important because only if it demonstrates that it has the power to act and is transparent and democratic in the eyes of the people will it be possible to overcome both the danger of overstretching as the result of enlargement and the incapacity to act.
In my view, it is for this reason that the intergovernmental conference stands at the apex of the enlargement, intergovernmental conference, foreign and security policy triangle, whereby it must be made perfectly clear that at no stage, be it with 12 or with 13 candidate States, can the Copenhagen criteria be watered down and that this Parliament will not permit any such watering down and will not ratify any such treaties.
I believe that the more the Union is reinforced at the intergovernmental conference, the quicker enlargement will be possible.
But, at the same time, this means that the stronger the European Union is made, the more candidate countries must consider if they are prepared to accept the concomitant waiver of sovereignty.
This aspect must also be stressed in connection with Turkey. Allow me to make one last comment.
Excellent progress has been made with the foreign and security policy.
But for me, one thing is missing; namely both the real involvement of the High Representative in the decision-making structures of the fora and the involvement of the Commission and the External Relations Commissioner in these structures.
These matters have already been raised in the run up.
We must ensure that this functions in practice, otherwise we will have a new intergovernmental event which has nothing new to offer and which only gives rise to new headlines because something is not quite right.
Parliament must ensure that this is put in order.
Mr President, I shall make three very straightforward points.
The first concerns the European Parliament' s relationship to this forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and its role therein.
Progress has certainly been made by comparison with the previous Intergovernmental Conference, but the most worrying aspect is that the Council had on the table a proposal which would give the European Parliament a greater role, a proposal which would grant it a role similar to the one the Commission will have in these negotiations, and it did not approve this proposal.
As we know, this is the fundamental problem, because it concerns the very nature of the European Parliament. This is not a parliament that functions within the normal constitutional systems of our countries.
It is worth stating here though that we do not accept that the European Parliament should be given a lesser role in a discussion process as important as such a large-scale revision of the Treaty on European Union.
We consider it vital that there should be two representatives of the European Parliament in the preparatory group but we feel that it is less fitting for the European Parliament that the President of the European Parliament, instead of dealing directly with Heads of State and Governments, should be put into a situation in which she is heard before the meetings of the General Affairs Council Ministers. This is not treatment befitting the European Parliament.
The second issue concerns the content, and we have had occasion to say this in the Brussels mini-session.
The Commission has shown great ambition where enlargement is concerned and little or no ambition in the revision of the Treaty.
We have the Amsterdam leftovers, we have the Treaty' s implications for defence issues and possibly, for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, although this is an open door - or rather an open window - through which the Portuguese Presidency must perform a miracle.
I would say that it is a miracle that could not be performed after Amsterdam.
And this is what concerns us.
If only the leftovers from Amsterdam remain, the discussion will be about efficiency and not about the European Union project.
The discussion could be about political manoeuvring and could lead to rule by a board of management.
From this point of view, the Commission has a crucial role in ensuring that the agenda of the IGC is not dictated by the lowest common denominator of each State' s interests, but rather that it has a global vision of the European Union project.
This is why the Commission cannot abdicate its responsibilities and must present specific proposals to this effect.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight two issues concerning the forthcoming Portuguese Presidency: the Summit on employment, which I consider to be very important and which should have been studied more carefully by this House, and the fact that priority should be given to the protection of public health and food safety.
Finally, I have a question for the Council, although I am not sure if it is represented here today, Mr President, to answer this question: what is the future of the Euro-African Summit scheduled for the next six-month term?
Mr President, the presidency has set out two propositions in the Helsinki conclusions, namely that an efficient and credible enlargement process must be sustained and that applicant countries are participating in the accession process on an equal footing.
When this is set against the fact that candidate status has been granted to Turkey and the simultaneous statement that there will be a conference in the spring of 2000, in which Turkey will not take part, then it is clear that this candidate status has been granted prematurely and is a blank cheque which will come bouncing back.
Even the improvements within Turkey noted by the Commission and the Council presidency must be subject to cautious appraisal when you think about the death penalty being upheld for Mr Öçalan, the fact that the Sakharov prize-winner Leyla Zana is still in prison because she stood up for her right to freedom of speech, the fact that the Kurdish question has not been resolved and all the other aspects of this document in connection with progress in Turkey.
Discussions on stage and in the wings clearly show that Europe is not being frank when it comes to Turkey.
The Helsinki conclusions are extremely positive in other areas, such as foreign and security policy and defence policy; but when it comes to Turkey' s membership, they are contradictory in the extreme.
There is a danger that far too much is being expected of Europe as regards this part of the enlargement process and that too much is being expected of Turkey itself.
Anyone who wants to be a member must be prepared to become a member on our terms.
I read that Mr Ecevit stressed at the conference that Turkey had a fundamental right to membership of the European Union.
I consider that a very risky statement.
I am not sure that the political classes in Turkey have any idea of what is in store for them when they have to waive sovereign rights.
We therefore consider that this decision by the Summit was rushed and inappropriate.
If you read the conditions, which state that negotiations with Turkey will still not begin and that Turkey will just have candidate status, i.e. no separate legal instrument has been opened, then this means - as it says here - that the UNO must endeavour to settle disputes, which should be settled by 2004 on the basis of UNO resolutions.
These are all things which, in our view, do not justify giving Turkey candidate status at this point in time.
Once Turkey joins, Europe will have to undergo a radical change of face and objectives.
Mr Prodi himself said that we must urgently discuss values and borders.
For us, an independent approach is the best alternative: security partnership, further development of customs union and permanent political dialogue, rather than announcing candidate status which, in the final analysis, is worth nothing and is more likely to create than to solve problems.
I have received 14 motions for resolutions, in accordance with Rule 37(2), to close this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m. and on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
2000 budget
Mr President, the budget for the year 2000 is, for the institutions other than the Commission, very simple.
The Council has adopted all of Parliament' s amendments.
It has also given its approval to Parliament' s own budget through a gentlemen' s agreement, which means they have not interfered in it at all.
I would like to express my sincerest thanks for that.
In the reading of next year' s budget, however, a position has to be taken on the change which was not in the original estimate.
I refer to the situation which was caused by the fact that the Court of First Instance approved the TDI group as a parliamentary political group.
According to parliamentary rules, this group has the right to a staff of 14.
The Secretary-General obtained the staffing resources by reallocating twelve of the fourteen staff necessary.
To make good the difference the Council of Presidents finally proposed two new temporary C5 posts and one A6 post.
So that this issue would be debated according to Parliament' s agenda, the Committee on Budgets called for compliance with Article 183.
The President sent a preliminary draft for the budget, which the Committee debated yesterday and adopted by virtue of the report on the proposal.
This report is now being debated in connection with next year' s budget, and we intend to vote on it tomorrow, Wednesday, when it is hoped the Commission will also present its preliminary letter of amendment in accordance with practice.
In this way the Council could debate and approve these matters on Wednesday, so that the issue might be dealt with in connection with the rest of the budget on Thursday 16 December.
What has happened does not mean that more money is being asked for next year' s budget, but only to create posts.
However, it shows how ponderous and cumbersome our administrative procedures are.
There is a total of 1700 different C posts in the European Parliament. Of these, some are vacant and some are to become so.
For that reason, it is urgent that we make the current administrative rules in Parliament more flexible, as they hamper the smooth and proper flow of administration.
The European Parliament is now adding new posts in connection with the budget now being discussed, which is not consistent with disciplined financial administration - not, at least, if we compare the additions to those in the previous five years.
We cannot nor must not, however, leave disciplined budgetary policy to the responsibility of the Committee on Budgets: it is naturally the Council of Presidents and the chairmen of the political groups that bear the greatest responsibility, especially where Parliament is concerned.
Finally I would like to say a few words in general about budgetary procedure.
The biggest problem this year was category 4: external action. During the debate new items of expenditure were added to it.
First there was the EUR 500 million proposed by the European Union Summit conference for Kosovo. Then, later, we had the fisheries agreement with Morocco; and then Turkey and other headings totalling 190 million euros or nearly EUR 700 million altogether, which represents 15% of the financial perspectives.
As the budget for 1999 had already very nearly reached its ceiling, it was really quite difficult to suppose that such great degrees of flexibility might be found in other areas of expenditure.
Among the members of the Council there had been no desire to alter the financial perspectives, at least up till now, and then not even now, not even by means of transfers between categories.
Furthermore, as a counterweight to the use of the flexibility instrument, immense reductions in other areas of expenditure were being and are being asked for.
Thus, the task of the Committee on Budgets was a very simple one: to adapt the budget to the financial perspectives.
As a result, only EUR 100 million were allocated to Kosovo in the budget at this stage.
The Council dropped its earlier estimate of EUR 500 million to 360 million.
From this we may draw at least two conclusions.
Before aid is promised in the name of the European Union, it would perhaps be in order to check whether the promises can be kept.
Such promises, which mean making corresponding cuts elsewhere, have clearly to be considered carefully.
The same also goes for long-term programmes.
If the EU means to spend EUR 5.5 billion on the reconstruction of the whole Balkans area over the next six or seven years, which is to say EUR 800 - 900 million a year, it would be useful to know how the promise is going to be backed in terms of finance.
In this respect, the report by the Committee on Budgets now under discussion is relevant, as it emphasises the need to be realistic.
Secondly, the European Union has two budgetary authorities, Parliament being one of them.
Parliament has not accepted this duty and these obligations: the Member States have imposed them.
As Parliament is one of the budgetary authorities, it also bears a responsibility, and this is a fact that cannot be ignored in the workings of the EU.
During the last few days and weeks, the negotiations have been - at least in my view - talk about very minor matters, as nearly each one of the finance ministers of the Member States and even their state secretaries handle certainly much larger sums on their own.
In so saying, I do not want to criticise the country holding the presidency, which has certainly done everything necessary to achieve harmony.
We need a budget for next year, and it must be achieved.
If we do not get agreement we will have to continue the talks in January.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the main rapporteur, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for his excellent work, which is obviously still continuing, and thank him and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terence Wynn, for their good and constructive cooperation and the diverse range of support they gave.
Likewise, I wish to thank the group' s coordinators, especially Mr Böge of the PPE-DE Group and Mr Walter of the PSE Group for their good cooperation, and all the members of the committee.
My special thanks go to Suvi-Anne Siimes, for her role as person responsible for the Council' s budget, and who has really got to grips with her job and applied herself to it conscientiously.
I would like to especially thank Heikki Joustie, who was involved as official representative, and who made his own splendid contribution in circumstances that were unusually awkward as far as the international situation was concerned.
Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the Helsinki Summit were presented and debated this morning.
The decisions to come out of Helsinki have far-reaching consequences for the future of the Union, namely the resolutions on the enlargement strategy, on the intergovernmental conference and on the common foreign and security policy.
The Finnish Presidency dealt with a huge agenda; the Summit was a success, a good conclusion to 1999 and, with the Millennium Declaration, a good start for the future.
It would be therefore be a great pity if we were unable to announce a satisfactory conclusion to the budgetary procedure.
The new budget for 2000 will serve as a clear basis for sound policies.
The budgetary procedure has involved difficult negotiations but I have no intention of reviewing the entire process.
We have now reached the point where there is fundamental agreement on fundamental points.
The Council and Parliament have agreed, as Minister Siimes has just explained, that the entire flexibility reserve may be used for financing expenditure on Kosovo.
Most importantly, it has been agreed - and this was particularly important to Parliament, quite rightly, in my view - that an important political statement is being made, namely that the tasks of the European Union in Kosovo and in the Balkans are tasks which extend over several years and that, in order to honour these tasks financially, we may need to increase expenditure on foreign policy in comparison with the expenditure forecast at the beginning of this year, when we based our assessment on a somewhat different political situation.
In order to be able to finance these additional requirements over coming years and, above all, in order to remain within the overall framework decided in Berlin for coming years, the financial perspective may need to be changed or reviewed. It is precisely the combination of new priorities, together with budgetary discipline, which may mean that we need to change the financial perspective.
At present the Commission - and this has been stressed here - is unable to submit the exact financing requirements for the Balkans as a whole.
The Commission, my colleague Mr Patten in particular, and the administration are still hard at work on this.
However, the World Bank and the Commission have produced a very accurate study of reconstruction in Kosovo, which shows that a total of 2.3 billion dollars or euros will be needed in external aid over the next few years to repair not only war damage but the cumulative damage which has arisen as a result of the fact that the political situation in Kosovo over recent years has led to a disaster in human terms.
There is an immediate need for a large sum of money, because we cannot in fact say that rebuilding houses or restoring schools and the power supply is a task for tomorrow. No, it is a task for today.
There is an urgent need, and I hope that we are still able to find a solution which does not put these needs off until tomorrow but tackles them today.
Agreement has been reached on entering EUR 300 million under the budget for the year 2000, in addition to the EUR 60 million redeployed from this year, and on considering the EUR 140 million granted at the donor conference as part of the funds promised for the year 2001.
Important decisions were also taken at Helsinki on the enlargement of the European Union.
Negotiations with the six candidate States are continuing and negotiations with six new candidate States have commenced.
The budget includes pre-accession aid which will rise from EUR 1.3 billion this year to EUR 3.1 billion next year.
New programmes are being funded in agriculture, infrastructure aid and transport and the environment, thereby paving the way for the candidate countries to join the Union.
The deployment of these appropriations will be very closely observed by my services in the form of financial control.
The financial control system forms a separate chapter in the negotiations.
In order to be able to estimate expenditure which may accrue for enlargement - the Berlin financial framework includes expenditure from 2000 onwards -, I shall suggest to the Commission that there be permanent screening of the economic situation and the enlargement expenditure needed as a result.
The peoples of the Member States must also be clear that enlargement is not a financial roller coaster.
The budget 2000 includes EUR 32 billion in commitments to support structural policy in the Member States.
The new programming period for 2000 to 2006 can therefore start being funded and it is starting with a new programme which emphasises that aid from the structural funds should, at the same time, help to improve gender equality, environmental protection and the employment situation.
I can assure you that we shall remind Member States quite clearly of their duty to deploy the appropriations so that these objectives can be achieved.
The budget 2000 includes EUR 41 billion for agricultural policy.
I should like to draw attention to the appropriations deployed for the second pillar of agricultural policy, namely for programmes to promote rural development.
The European Parliament fought intensively for this second pillar of the agricultural policy.
I shall do my very best to ensure that the programmes in this area get off to a good start.
I should also like to mention that the number of posts at the anti-fraud office will be increased under budget 2000 - this has already been mentioned - so that the OLAF is equipped to carry out its task.
I should also like to stress - and the credit here goes in particular to the rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges - that the Commission is to examine its entire system for outsourcing activities to Technical Assistance Offices.
More importantly, Mr Bourlanges has proposed that a new administrative unit be set up which is similar in structure to the agencies.
The Commission has agreed on a timetable for reforming the system used hitherto.
I should like at this point to extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteurs, Messrs Bourlanges, Virrankoski and Colom i Naval - even if your report has not been tabled for discussion today - and, above all, to the chairman and members of the Committee on Budgets for their intensive work over recent months.
I should also like to thank the Council and to congratulate you, Minister Siimes, on your Finnish Presidency of the Council.
I understand that you proposed a solution to the final differences between the Council and the European Parliament in the overall process, namely that payment appropriations be reduced by EUR 2 billion.
I think that this should be stressed here once again.
The strength of the European institutions lies in finding compromises and in forging compromises.
The negotiations were long, but we are now at the point at which agreement can be reached.
It is now a question of seizing the opportunity to get the budget 2000 and the new year off to a good start and I urge Parliament to do so.
Mr President, could I first of all say on behalf of my committee how much I welcome the remarks by the President-in-Office, which raise the prospect that we might be able to reach agreement on the budget very quickly.
I would also like to congratulate the Finnish Presidency on taking us so far.
At this moment I can only give two cheers for her statement because I do not understand what she said as regards Heading 4.
She said that the Council does not want the ceiling for Heading 4 to be amended permanently.
Does that mean therefore that we will continue to operate Heading 4 on an ad hoc basis, that we will use a flexibility clause every year and therefore have a pretence that we have no change to the financial perspective when the reality is of course different?
I would advise caution in this case because, as Mr Bourlanges has said, we are dealing with an unpredictable situation in the Balkans, not only in relation to Mr Milosevic but also the death of Mr Tudjman.
These events raise questions about the long-term feasibility of the course we are pursuing at the moment.
I would like some clarification on that point.
It has been a historic year in many ways, as the Commission, I am sure, would rather forget some of the more dramatic moments back in the spring, in the same way as some of us would rather forget some of the more dramatic election results of the summer!
But let us not forget why the Commission was forced to resign: fraud and mismanagement, those were the main points.
That is why this year's budget really had to reflect the need to tighten up procedures for budget control; and as the rapporteur for the 2000 budget, and on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I would like to welcome once again the establishment of the new body to fight fraud and the new OLAF posts reflected in this year's budget.
The process of appointing the OLAF director is now well advanced.
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings with the candidates and produced a shortlist of three people, and I understand that tonight there will be a meeting to try to thrash out a decision between the representatives of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Let us not forget that the technical assistance offices were also a big problem in the forced resignation of the Commission.
The Commission's strategic issues paper adopted on 10 December concluded that core public service tasks should not be outsourced and that the Commission should have at its disposal a much more flexible set of arrangements for non-core public service tasks.
That is something with which I wholeheartedly agree.
The Commission now performs such a wide variety of diverse functions that non-core public service tasks could be carried out in very many different ways.
There is no point in having a one-size-fits-all model for carrying out such tasks.
What we need to do is to reform the Staff Regulations so we can have flexibility in hiring contractual staff to service these offices.
Mr President, if we have understood the President-in-Office of the Council correctly, then this message, that the Council is moving towards Parliament' s position, is an important one.
After the events of the last few weeks, I am pleased to hear the message but I lack faith.
Which is why we need an exact overview of what this message in fact means.
Parliament has taken great pains to move towards the Council' s position over recent weeks.
Until the end, any such effort on the part of the Council was minimal.
And if there is any now, we must ask, why not a moment earlier because, if the situation really is as we have understood it - and I still have my doubts - then we now have problems with how, technically, we are supposed to ensure that everything goes according to plan.
Until that has been clarified, as far as I am concerned, the decision of the Committee on Budgets taken yesterday evening still stands.
Specialist committees are very dependent upon the rapporteur to do their business for them.
I am happy to say that Mr Bourlanges this year has been a reliable colleague and negotiated well on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
He has pursued his own ideas and those of the Committee on Budgets at the same time, in particular his wish for administrative expenditure to be clearly identified so that monitoring can be carried out.
We are happy to support him in that.
We are pleased with the compromise on the fifth framework programme which allows us to monitor effectively but does not mean that managing the programmes becomes impossible for the Commission.
As far as energy is concerned, we are disappointed with the relatively small sums allocated for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
We shall be back with suggestions next year.
On the whole we are satisfied.
We will monitor very carefully the money that we shall be voting for on Thursday.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking now as the rapporteur of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I must say that the budget which has now been tabled is indeed a social budget because this time, with our corrections, it takes clear account of employment policy measures.
This means that anyone who wants action in favour of families, anyone who wants young trainees to be able to gain experience abroad and anyone who really wants to combat social exclusion will vote in favour of our proposed amendments the day after tomorrow.
Anyone who wants the European employment strategy to be paid more than lip service and to be more than an item on Summit agendas but who wants the European employment strategy to be anchored at local level will vote, I am sure, in favour of our new employment policy initiatives.
A social Europe also has strong trade union and employer associations in permanent dialogue with each other.
It is never too early to start exporting this model of success to Central and Eastern Europe.
Which is why we have reversed the Council' s cutbacks here.
Mr President, could I first join with some of my other colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the work that he has done this year.
As someone who was responsible for the budget on behalf of the Committee on Environment for the first time, I found him very helpful and very considerate of the points I made - not agreeing with everything but nevertheless being very fair-minded.
I would also like to welcome the decisions taken by the Council and the Commission.
The decision with regard to the money for Kosovo is helpful and their other agreements have, generally speaking, made the Committee on the Environment relatively happy.
I am glad Mrs Schreyer mentioned earlier the additional monies for the Veterinary Office which are particularly important if we want them to deal with the problems that have arisen because of the BSE crisis, the dioxin crisis in Belgium and of course the continued work in Portugal.
That money is necessary and we are very pleased that you agreed to it.
In the area of health, we have had some very small and moderate improvements.
The budget headings for the Committee on the Environment generally concern very small amounts but they have enabled us to start the preparatory research that will help us develop the issue of health competence under the Amsterdam Treaty.
The sum involved is small but it is important.
As regards consumers, there we are pleased to see that the agreement reached on the Whitehead report and the conciliation on the Whitehead report last year has been honoured and the money will come through.
We are looking forward to that bringing general benefits in the coming year.
As regards the area of the environment, the most important outstanding measure of course is the Lienemann report and the conciliation on LIFE and we are optimistic that we will get a reasonable result there.
I would however make one final plea.
The question of the money for the drugs agency is urgent now that we will approve the orphan drugs regulation in February.
Something must be done quickly.
Could I, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Transport and Tourism, acknowledge the progress that is being made by the Council and in particular by the Committee on Budgets in addressing our concerns.
We, as a committee, fully endorse the approach adopted by the Committee on Budgets in all areas but in particular would highlight their efforts to increase the payment appropriations under the structural funds.
Secondly, we would highlight their attempt to restore the cuts in the INTERREG programme by some EUR 33 million in the payments, restoring that heading to the budget.
Thirdly, we would thank them for their efforts to restore the unacceptable cuts in the transport safety heading; we welcome the progress made there.
Fourthly and finally, we welcome progress in restoring the cuts in the environmentally sustainable transport heading.
We endorse all their efforts so far and would also add our backing to their insistence that 20% of the payment appropriations go into reserve for the Community INTERREG and URBAN initiatives, pending the satisfactory adoption of the guidelines.
You have our full support, Mr Bourlanges, and we hope that Parliament endorses the Committee on Budgets' proposals in the vote this week.
This is the third time I have had the responsibility of being draftsman on the budget for the Committee on Culture and I would particularly like to thank Mr Bourlanges, the budget rapporteur, for his help and cooperation.
I have time to make only two points.
One is regularly made: culture and education are important for Europe, not just for the past but for the future of our continent.
We neglect them at our peril and, by continuing year after year to spend less on our cultural and educational programmes than we spend on growing tobacco, we are not just neglecting them, we are turning our priorities completely upside down.
With so little to spend, it is important that we spend it efficiently and effectively.
Secondly, are you aware that today, 14 December 1999, the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament, the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation, to name just three, are yet to receive the subsidies that we voted for them for this year?
They are told the cheques are in the post.
I am afraid their bank managers are not so ready to accept that excuse.
Much is promised but, sadly, not a lot of it is delivered.
This is a comment that I think applies just a shade too often where Europe is concerned.
I urge the Commissioner never to let this happen again.
Mr President, Mr Bourlanges, the proposal you put forward is, shall we say, reasonable.
It makes it possible to release EUR 115 million to finance Kosovo, while waiting for a realistic evaluation of requirements, covered, if necessary, by the vote on a SAB next spring, and this is no bad thing.
We have also had to effect savings of EUR 150 million, i.e. further budget cuts to the lines of heading 4 in order to finance new priorities: Timor, Turkey and the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco, which are not in the exclusive domain of external action of the Union, but which we have accepted.
It must be pointed out that these are heavy sacrifices, especially since this proposal envisages taking EUR 35 million out of ECHO appropriations, a deduction which is presented as a loan, one whose repayment seems highly uncertain. Nonetheless we shall be fighting for that.
So, of course I support your proposal but, as you will understand, I support it without enthusiasm.
I simply wish to express, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, my concern regarding this budget 2000 which, if the financial perspectives are not reviewed, places the burden of all the sacrifices on the poorest countries.
We join forces, however, with the position of the Committee on Budgets and I wish my fellow Members on that committee good luck in the forthcoming three-way dialogue.
Ladies and gentlemen, we shall adjourn the debate on the budget which will resume this evening at 9 p.m.
Shall I ask the Commission if it is prepared to make its declaration?
Meanwhile, and until the Commissioner arrives, I give the floor to the Council, which would like to speak - I think - about Helsinki.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, I just wish to refer to the speech I gave.
I actually said that at present the Council believes there is no need to amend the frameworks of the 2000 budget permanently, and we have proposed the use of the flexibility instrument with regard to category 4.
Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
We shall adjourn the sitting for a few minutes while we wait for the representative of the Council to arrive.
Commission communication - Decisions taken at that day' s meeting
The next item is the communication by the Commission on the decisions taken at today' s meeting.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, and I would firstly like to congratulate the President.
The Commission met here in Strasbourg this afternoon and took the following decisions, which I shall now relay to you.
Firstly, it decided to give France a reasoned opinion with a deadline of five days in which to respond concerning the ban on British beef.
The Commission took three further decisions on the application of Regulation No 4064/89 concerning merger control and on Regulation No 17/62 in application of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, imposing fines ranging from EUR 100 000 to EUR 3 000 for each company that has supplied incorrect information in response to requests for information that have been made to them.
The Commission also adopted a communication which defines the objectives and the principles of the Community medium-term audiovisual policy and which establishes a strategy for the so-called "digital" age.
The communication contains several principles that in the Commission' s opinion should be applied to the regulation of the audiovisual sector and to its support mechanisms.
Closely linked to this communication, the Commission approved another one, together with a proposal for a decision by the European Parliament and the Council and a proposal for a decision by the Council relating to a programme of support for the European audiovisual industry, which is the MEDIA PLUS 2001-2005 programme.
The communication contains a renewed vision and principles for intervention relating to the MEDIA PLUS programme.
The first proposal concerns the formalisation of a training programme for professionals in the European audiovisual programme industry, the so-called "Media-Training" programme, which will be funded to the value of EUR 50 million for the period 2001 to 2005.
The objective of the second proposal is to establish a programme of support for the development, distribution and promotion of unequivocally European audiovisual works.
This is the MEDIA-PLUS programme - Development, Distribution and Promotion, which will be funded to the value of EUR 350 million for the period 2001 to 2005.
Following the Helsinki European Council meeting, on which a debate was held here this morning in plenary sitting, in the presence of the President of the Commission, the Commission approved a proposal for a decision by the Council which seeks the formal adoption of the guidelines on the Member States' employment policies for 2000.
In the framework of the internal reform of the Commission and following its statement of commitment to review the policy of outsourcing services, the Commission also approved a communication containing guidelines and the timetable for the implementation of this outsourcing policy.
Finally, Mr President, the Commission approved a proposal for a decision by the Council that aims to create a European Fund for Refugees.
This is an instrument that aims to last for five years and which, thus, within a framework of multiannual programming, will enable us to give effective support to measures designed to improve conditions of reception, to promote integration and to make voluntary repatriation easier, as well as reintegration into refugees' and displaced persons' countries of origin.
The fund will also contribute to the financing of emergency measures in the event of a massive influx of people who are in desperate need of international protection.
A sum of EUR 36 million has been earmarked for the first year of this fund' s operation: EUR 26 million for the structural policy and EUR 10 million for emergency situations.
On this last point, I would like to add that the tradition of sums being earmarked for supporting refugees was started by the European Parliament in 1997 and annual decisions have been taken on it.
Therefore, the time has come, following the Tampere European Council meeting to adopt a permanent legal base, which will give rise to a multiannual-type programme.
The Tampere European Council asked the Commission to look into the creation of a financial fund aimed at resolving emergency situations.
The Commission worked on the basis of the lessons it learned from its experience of Kosovo.
This fund is therefore both a fund that has an emergency component but whose objective is, at the same time, to guarantee the financing of structural policy measures of support for the reception, integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and asylum seekers.
There are, therefore, two interlocking budget lines, which nevertheless have different objectives.
Firstly, the structural objective for the next five years is to allow the development by the Member States of policies for the reception and integration of refugees and asylum seekers, policies which must concentrate above all on priority actions of a very tangible nature.
We see the Member States' need to provide themselves with equipment and infrastructure for support for the reception, integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and asylum seekers as a priority in this area.
The objective of the Commission' s proposal is that the sum of EUR 26 million should be distributed amongst the Member States based on a criterion, on a distribution scale that, above all, takes into account the number of requests for asylum that each Member State has received in the last three years and the number of refugees that have been in each Member States over the last three years.
The first component will make up two-thirds of the fund' s national financing component and the second component will make up one third.
In terms of the management of this fund, the Commission proposes that it should, above all, be co-financed by Member States with the specific aim of committing each State to implementing concrete actions that will lead to improving the situation of asylum-seekers and refugees in the States of our Union.
The Commission is reserving the management of 10% of the funds for itself with the aim of supporting the development of innovative, transnational projects.
In its proposal, the Commission adopts the system of the constant commitology of a consultative committee and aims, with this, to replace the system of the Technical Assistance Offices that was in force during the 1998-1999 period.
I am Mr President, at the Chamber' s service.
Thank you very much, Commissioner António Vitorino.
Firstly, I would like to say that your slight delay is quite justified by the importance of your communication. I would also like to say that Parliament is delighted that this almost immediate and instantaneous form of debate between this House and the executive is possible and hopes that this new practice will really create a space for topical political debate, which can only enhance this House and its relationship with the Commission.
We shall now proceed to the debate.
Thank you, Mr President.
My question relates to the Media Plus Programme 2001-2006.
The elections for the European Parliament had a turnout, unfortunately, of less than 50%.
This programme should make provision for a focus on information and, more importantly, for a focus on training for journalists on the subject of the European Union.
I think that there is an increasingly urgent need to maintain good contacts with the public.
We have seen from the example of the WTO that European broadcasters could have been represented much more intensively and that it is important for us to be up to date in media reporting if we want to play a leading role in the world.
Which is why I am interested in knowing if it would be possible to invite journalists here from Europe and the rest of the world in order to explain our work to them and show them the advantages of European Union.
Firstly, Mr Rübig, I would like to say that I share the concern you have just expressed about whether the European Institutions as a whole, are able to draft a policy on information and communication which will enable us to provide all European citizens with not just the contents of our debates but also with the added value that the decisions of Parliament, the Commission and the Council itself have for their daily life.
Nevertheless, the context of the Media Plus programme does not apply best to conducting information campaigns or communication aimed at our citizens.
In reality, the central aim of these programmes is to support the training of professionals in the European audiovisual industry and to promote European artistic creation and research in the audiovisual sphere.
They are, therefore, not information programmes in the strict sense of the word, but are rather programmes of support for creative initiatives by audiovisual professionals, which are markedly European in nature.
We are all aware that the percentage of audiovisual products originating in Europe and consumed in Europe is tiny, even if we take the value of the production of each of our national States together as well as those considered to be European productions because they involve the collaboration of more than one Member State.
We hope that through this programme, there will be a significant increase in the worldwide quota of audiovisual products originating in Europe by means of a policy of supporting the creation, production and distribution of authentically European audiovisual products.
My second question relates to employment policy for the year 2000, which you voted on here today.
The same question comes up time and time again: to what extent is the budget of the European Union examined in order to ascertain which budget lines foster employment?
Some expenditure certainly fosters employment by creating new jobs and new undertakings, some budget lines secure existing jobs and some budget lines destroy jobs.
Has any provision been made here for a scientific study or are there any studies which illustrate which expenditure or income we can use to make a positive impact on European employment policy?
I must confess to the honourable Member that employment is not my specific area of expertise.
I would therefore not be able to give a straight answer to your question as far as global policy of the Commission is concerned.
What I can guarantee is that the issue of the restructuring of the Union budget concerning contributions to employment policy was not discussed by the Commission today.
What we did approve was the contribution of the Commission to the guidelines for the national employment plans for the year 2000 in the follow-up to the so-called Cardiff, Luxembourg and Cologne procedures.
We consider that a major opportunity to discuss the concrete contribution of the Union to the creation of new jobs in Europe will be provided by the coming Lisbon Summit in March, which will be the time and the place to make an evaluation of the three processes I have just mentioned, Cologne, Luxembourg and Cardiff on one hand; and on the other to define the strategy, the synthesis of macro-economic policies, micro-economic entrepreneurial innovation and the challenge of the new information society.
From the Lisbon Summit I hope we will get a clearer idea as to how the Union budget can contribute to our common objective of creating new jobs in the continent.
Mr President. I do not wish to encroach on members' time, but you reported at the beginning that you are now instituting Treaty infringement proceedings against France.
But the argument does not relate solely to France, it relates to Germany as well.
In the compromise forged between France and the Commission and Great Britain, it was agreed that the tests should also be used for diagnostic purposes and that English beef from this export programme should be labelled.
These requirements were also imposed by Germany.
My question is this: if you institute Treaty infringement proceedings without waiting for the results of the tests, when the tests have not even been carried out - we are still waiting for a proposal from Commissioner Byrne - and if the logistics for labelling have still not been set up, how then can you expect France and Germany to lift their import restrictions with this state of affairs?
Should the Commission not put the conditions in place and monitor them first, so that this can be done?
Mr President, we await further explanation from the Commission on the matter tomorrow.
Perhaps then we can go into it in greater depth.
Mr President, I shall be brief.
The issue raised by the honourable Member will be adequately addressed by my colleague, Mr Byrne, tomorrow morning here in Parliament.
I would suggest that he raise the question tomorrow, when he will get a much better answer than any I could give you.
Mr President, since we are holding a free debate, I read Mr Ecevit' s statement following Turkey' s acceptance as a candidate country of the European Union in this morning' s Libération. In it he said, "the borders of Europe will inevitably move more and more eastwards....they will encompass Central Asia and eventually the whole of the Asian continent" .
In his second statement, he brought up the Cyprus issue and stressed that Turkey would not brook any discussion of the current state of affairs in Cyprus, thereby ignoring what was said in the Helsinki decision.
I should like to ask the Commissioner, given that the Commission enthusiastically supported candidate status for Turkey, if these statements are in keeping with the spirit in which the Council and the Commission recommended that Turkey be granted candidate status and if this is an indication of how Turkey will conduct itself in future.
Mr Marinos, just a brief observation.
We all have to adapt to this new and, I think, encouraging method of working with the Commission, - the free debate - but as you know, according to the Rules of Procedure, this free debate is connected directly and in this particular circumstance - and that is why it was created - to the declaration that the Commission has just made and to the issues addressed in it.
Obviously, the Commission has not made a declaration on these matters even though they are, I admit, of the utmost political importance and extremely topical. However, the Commission has not made such a declaration.
It is up to Commissioner Vitorino to decide if he should reply or not.
Mr President, I would just like to say that I agree with your interpretation.
The Commission' s position on the interpretation of the Helsinki decisions was expressed here, this morning in plenary, by President Prodi and it is to this declaration that I would refer you for the Commission' s position.
I missed the beginning of the sitting, for which I apologise, but I was at a meeting with Xanana Gusmão.
I am extremely curious to find out, as the press has barely covered the matter, how things went in Helsinki in terms of the third pillar, which falls precisely within Commissioner Vitorino' s competence.
At the Tampere meeting, much was said about third pillar issues, about internal security, justice and all the rest, and the Commissioner was supposed to take to Helsinki something that was already tangible.
I would like to know what happened in Helsinki, if he is able to give me an answer.
Mr Soares, the Commission' s commitment was, in December, to present the first version of the scoreboard to the Council of Justice and Home Affairs.
And this is what the Commission did at the beginning of December.
Not to the Helsinki European Council but to the Council of Justice and Home Affairs.
The Commission hopes that this scoreboard will be adopted under the Portuguese Presidency at the Council of Justice and Home Affairs next March in Lisbon.
At European Council level, what was decided was that the Heads of State and Government will once again go into issues of Justice and Home Affairs at the European Council meeting in June 2000, the Santa Maria da Feira Council, in order to study the so-called external dimension of Justice and Home Affairs in greater detail. These are the implications for the European Union' s external policy of the new priorities adopted by Tampere for the area of freedom, security and justice.
Commissioner Vitorino, I appreciated the communication that you just made on behalf of the Commission on the Media II programme for support for the creation and production of European culture.
I simply feel that the funds are too small for the ambition that the Commission has for this programme and for this strategy.
Nevertheless, the intention is good and should be applauded.
I feel however, that the greater consumption of European audiovisual products will occur through educating Europeans themselves, through stimulating their taste and their appreciation of European culture and by rejecting the many poor-quality products that come from other parts of the world.
This educating process is obviously not within the Commission' s competence. It is up to Europeans themselves, in the way they raise and educate their children and in the way they run their media.
Nevertheless, I appreciated your communication and I support it.
What I asked you just now though is this; is this programme positively compatible with the Commission' s other position according to which we should protect European audiovisual products from competition, especially television, which the French call a "cultural exception" ?
Mr President, thank you very much for the question that I have been asked.
I would like to begin by saying to Carlos Lage that what the Commission has approved today - the Media Plus programme - is entirely consistent with a strategy that has been developed by this Commission within the framework of the so-called I-Europe programme.
And this will culminate - we hope - in the decisions of next March' s Extraordinary European Council meeting in Lisbon.
What we need to do is to prepare Europe, both in terms of infrastructure and of the content production industry, for the challenge of the information age which means of course that we are assuming that Europe has the ambition to participate in the new digital economy and in the new society of culture and information on a global scale.
As for the specific question that Mr Lage asked, we are not trying to establish a strategy based on the logic of protecting competition.
It is a question of establishing a strategy with which, whilst accepting the rules of free competition, we can support European creation as well as distribution in order to be able to face this competition more successfully.
Therefore, it is not a question of there being less competition, but of fairer competition which is given greater support by the European courts.
Mr President, during Commissioner Vitorino' s hearing, I told him that I was pleased to see that he was the only Commissioner who had taken the trouble to mention education as an important element to be incorporated into the third pillar.
He replied enthusiastically and even with a degree of passion which struck me as extraordinary.
In Spain we are adopting a law on aliens which fully supports integration and the recognition of all rights.
But we also need Europe to take a step forward with regard to education because a new wave of illiteracy is appearing, a new group of marginalised people, as a result of the fact that people are unable to understand the language of the country into which they are being integrated.
These new illiterates cannot even understand safety instructions at work.
They cannot understand road signs.
This is a new type of illiteracy, a new kind of basic poverty which is currently becoming part of the social make-up of Europe.
This problem is getting out of hand, perhaps through lack of information and research.
Would it not be possible to carry out a systematic study of what the conditions and needs really are and where the essential points lie?
Because without information it is not possible to draft a policy and without a knowledge of the true state of affairs it is not possible to create proper programmes.
We need to lay firm foundations in this field, since nobody is taking responsibility for education.
I shall gladly reply to the Member by saying that education is a central element in integration policies, and I offer you two examples.
First example: the Commission has proposed a directive for the reuniting of legal immigrants with their families in the Member States of the Union.
Under this directive, children who are reunited with a relative who is a permanent legal immigrant in the countries of the Union will have the right to full education under the same terms as the children of the citizens of the Member States.
Second example: under the EQUAL initiative, research is to be carried out into the use of the education system as a means of integrating immigrants into the host societies.
I can guarantee that both the Directorate-General for Justice and Home Affairs and the Directorate-General for Employment and Social Affairs are fully aware that it is strategically important for the children of legal immigrants in the countries of the Union to be guaranteed access to education.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Commission)
The next item is Question Time (B5-0036/1999).
We shall examine the questions to the Commission.
First Part
Since the author is not present, Question No 33 lapses.
Question No 34 by (H-0689/99):
Subject: EU Charter of Fundamental Rights In the Commission=s view, should the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights being drawn up on a mandate from the Tampere Summit have legal force?
The Cologne European Council decided that a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union should be drawn up in advance of the European Council in December 2000 and that such a charter should be drafted by a body composed of 15 representatives of the Heads of State and Government, 16 Members of the European Parliament including the honourable Member, 30 Members of national parliaments and myself representing the President of the Commission.
The composition of the body was fixed in Tampere and its first meeting will take place next Friday, 17 December.
The nature of the Charter is a very fundamental question, nevertheless the European Council left the question open.
According to the conclusions, it will have to be considered whether and, if so, how the charter should be integrated into the Treaties.
Although it is up to the Heads of State and Government to decide the definitive status of the Charter, in its proposal the body will have to consider how to combine two open questions: a legally binding text ready to be inserted into the Treaty, or a solemn political declaration.
These reflections will also take into account the close connection with the IGC preparatory work.
In the Commission's view, the European Union Charter should respond to two different concerns: visibility and security.
As far as visibility is concerned, one could argue that a political declaration solemnly proclaimed by the European institutions and relayed by all channels of communication will be enough.
On the legal security aspect, we must consider how the European Union Charter can contribute to improving the degree of protection of fundamental rights within the European Union and it is difficult to see how a non-binding text could contribute to clarifying and transcending the current system of protection.
In the Commission's view, the Charter to be presented to the Heads of State and Government must carry real added value and the best way to achieve this is to focus on the fundamental rights arising from the Union itself.
The body will have to find a way to attain a politically significant text compatible with insertion into the Treaty.
There are clear indications that drafting of the Charter is broadly welcomed and that citizens expect it to be a founding text on the matter.
The Commission is convinced that those expectations should not be disappointed.
The Commissioner has surprised me by going as far as he has done and I very much welcome the response that he has given.
I look forward to working with him on the drafting body.
I wonder whether you would agree that if, at the end of the day, we end up with a mere political statement, we will have wasted a year of our activity?
It is not necessary to have 62 people working to draft a political statement.
If this is what we are going to end up with we might as well send away a couple of officials to make a draft of the rights that we currently have in the Treaty.
What we must have at the end of this process is a legally binding set of rights for the citizens of Europe.
I would just add that I am confident we will be able to find the necessary consensus to make the charter capable of having a real influence on the daily lives of our citizens.
There are of course difficulties ahead of us - political difficulties and some technical ones.
We have to address very clearly the question of the judicial enforcement of this charter.
I am confident that in close cooperation the Commission, the Council, Parliament and the national parliaments will eventually come up with a good result if we bear in mind above all the interests of the citizens.
Question No 35 by (H-0670/99):
Subject: Renewal of concessions for motorway companies in Italy The Italian government intends to renew the concessions of the 20 companies which currently manage the Italian motorways.
After approving the concession for Autostrade, a stock company which manages approximately 50% of the Italian motorway system, it is proposing to renew the concessions of the 19 other, smaller companies.
In exchange, the companies propose making enormous investments worth some ITL 20,000 billion in new motorways.
Does the Commission not feel that renewing the concessions is an infringement of the directives on the awarding of public supply contracts (92/50/EEC, 93/37/EEC and 89/440/EEC), given that there was no public European call for tenders and any other EU company was therefore excluded from this important market?
Does the Commission not think that the companies' offer to create new infrastructure is a means of defending their monopoly position, and that the construction work runs counter to the EU' s policy of a more responsible balance between the different forms of transport?
In response to the question raised by Mr Bouwman, I would like to make the following observation on behalf of the Commission.
The Commission would point out to the honourable Member of Parliament that there are three infringement procedures currently running concerning these issues.
The procedure concerning Autostrade s.p.a. could well have a positive outcome in the light of the fact that the Italian authorities have expressed their willingness to work together with the Commission in unison and have taken steps towards privatising the company.
Given the major consequences which this case might have, the Commission will, however, continue to monitor the process and the dossier will not be closed before the Commission has ascertained that the principles of transparency and equal treatment are upheld.
With regard to the other concessions, the Commission has initiated two infringement procedures and is investigating the issues related to them.
Given their economic, political and social significance, these matters will also be discussed at a meeting with the Italian authorities which will take place very soon.
In order to tackle this general issue in a more structural way, the Commission has, in fact, recently launched a horizontal inquiry into the current situation within all Member States, to identify common problems and problems which are only specific to a certain Member State.
If this inquiry will bring possible infringements to light, then the Commission will take further steps to solve these problems.
The new investments in infrastructure undertaken by Italy do not necessarily contravene the EU' s transport policy.
Although the Member States are responsible for taking decisions regarding such investments, the Commission is of the opinion that these must be based on the positive outcome of a complete social cost and benefit analysis.
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, I am of course delighted that the Commission is looking into these problems and that these three infringement proceedings are now under way.
We are all waiting for an answer.
But I would ask you to consider in this connection that we should perhaps take this opportunity to provide for dovetailing the Commission services responsible for transport and the services responsible for competition if we are to make progress with transport policy decisions in Europe in general.
We must and we want to shift heavy traffic onto the railways.
The positive example here of the award of the Brenner motorway concession for the purpose of investing in a basic Brenner tunnel could perhaps be used as an example throughout Europe.
I would like to digress briefly to point out that the Brenner motorway concession is to be awarded, but has not yet been awarded on condition or with the promise that money from the motorway will be transferred to the basic Brenner tunnel, i.e. to the railways.
If the Commission services responsible for transport and competition were to work together, we could take an important step forward in a policy to shift heavy traffic from the roads to the railways.
I would like to extend my warm thanks to Mr Messner for the additional remarks he has made which the Commission will take very much to heart.
I do not only say this on my own behalf, but also certainly on behalf of fellow Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, who, as you know, is responsible for the transport policy.
This matter undoubtedly has our undivided attention.
I would very much like to respond to Mr Messner' s question and reiterate that the onus is on the Member State to adopt its own transport policy.
Naturally, we hope that, as far as possible, this policy will be in line with the transport policy of other Member States and that of the Commission itself.
As for the shift of freight from road to rail, I would like to observe that the point made by Mr Messner deserves a great deal of attention.
I can assure him that in various Member States, an opinion-forming process is under way which aims to ensure that the shift which he advocates is carried out.
It is, of course, a fact that the transport of freight by road carries an element of flexibility which rail does not have.
This does not take away from the fact that rail transport is eminently suitable for long-distance transport, also because - and this will be very dear to Mr Messner - the surroundings and the environment suffer less damage as a result.
Concerning the concession regarding transport over the Brenner Pass, as mentioned by Mr Messner, this concession is still outstanding.
The Commission will find out how this concession will be granted because - and this is also the topic of current discussion - of course, concessions cannot be granted until the conditions which should be tied in with the granting of concessions in general, are sufficiently met.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the final analysis, concessions are being used more and more as a way of financing urgently needed projects.
When do you expect to complete a directive on road pricing in Europe which could be used to carry out urgently needed motorway renovations and extensions?
I think that, in the final analysis, road pricing might also reduce mobility costs, if the objectives are achieved, namely fewer traffic jams, fewer accidents, and above all, more environmental protection, not only in relation to air pollution and noise but in many other areas too.
Do you think that this sort of directive will be tabled in the foreseeable future?
With regard to this additional question, I would like to remark that the topic of road pricing is a very contentious one in certain Member States.
One could, of course, reason from the liberal principle that anything scarce should become expensive.
In this case, it is road space which is scarce so one could say that this scarceness must be translated into higher prices.
The total cost remains the same, of course.
The total cost is what it is.
But there is a shift from public funding of these expenses towards the private user of this road space.
I can assure the honourable MEP that, for example, in a Member State which I happen to know best, the topic of road pricing should receive a great deal of attention but is politically also very controversial.
In other words, the topic is definitely on the agenda but has not yet reached the stage where decisions can be taken and as far as I know - but the honourable MEP is aware that this is not within my remit, so I am speaking with some circumlocution and caution - such a directive is not in the pipeline at the European Commission as yet.
However, if I am mistaken, then I give the undertaking that further news will follow in writing.
As the author is not present, Question No 36 lapses.
As the honourable Member who has put down the question will know, political cooperation between Member States on quality in education has strengthened during recent years.
The recommendation on quality evaluation and higher education adopted in September 1998 and a proposed recommendation on quality evaluation in school education give evidence of the importance of discussing quality of education at a European level.
At the Council of Education Ministers on 26 November, the theme gained further importance as one of the priorities to be treated during the next years through the adoption of a resolution on a rolling agenda.
Following the Conference of European Ministers of Education in Prague in June 1998, a working committee on quality indicators was set up.
It includes representatives from 26 European countries and it has prepared progress reports for the attention of Ministers - one in June and one in October of this year.
The first European report on quality of education will be presented for the education council for the Conference of European Ministers of Education in Bucharest in June 2000, and for this Parliament.
In the light of the discussions on the report, the Commission will propose how to treat indicators and benchmarks of quality of education within the framework of the rolling agenda and the yearly Conference of European Ministers of Education.
The present working committee has proved to be an important forum for discussion and for exchange of information and experiences about quality policies between Member States and acceding countries.
The Commission intends to propose that the committee continue its work.
The European work on indicators and benchmarks will lead to discussions about reasons for differences in performance between education systems.
Explanatory factors like the curriculum, teacher-training, resources, evaluation and so on are discussed within the working committee on quality indicators and at a ministerial level.
Countries participating in the working committee profit from the exchange of information and experiences on these issues.
The Commission welcomes the active participation of the European Parliament on the issue of quality of education, particularly in the forthcoming discussion on indicators and benchmarks of quality education.
I am grateful for the courtesy of your reply, Commissioner, but I have to say that it does not fully respond to the very specific questions which I have put to you.
I believe that the legal basis of Article 149 provides us with the opportunity to move forward a little more than the cautious Prague mandate.
The concept of quality in education is more than a quantitative measure of the resources of the different systems or an evaluation of performance in certain academic disciplines.
To my mind, the agenda of the Council of Education Ministers of 26 November could have made use of the proposal of a permanent committee on quality in education.
In the light of the results of the first European report on quality in education, which this Parliament will take good note of, would it be possible for this committee or some other form of committee to provide common benchmarks in the area of the curriculum?
I urge the Commission to face this challenge with political courage.
We must go beyond the Prague mandate.
We must go beyond the old debate between uniformity and national idiosyncrasies.
The debate on quality in education must help us to duly open up European consciousness to the younger generations.
I hear what the honourable Member says and I acknowledge that he has worthwhile motives, but he will be aware that the Treaty actually states that the Community shall contribute to the development of quality education.
We are confronted with the reality of having to respect the responsibility of the Member States for the content of teaching and the organisation of the education system.
Consequently, it is better for us to continue to pursue a strategy of encouraging Member States to make full use of the opportunity of learning from and applying initiatives taken in the European countries generally rather than to set ourselves a more ambitious agenda which would probably strike difficulties of subsidiarity and maybe have the effect of reducing general enthusiasm.
The honourable Member will know from his interest in the subject that we are really in the early period of development in this area.
The Commission wants to ensure that progress is stable and continual and I am sure he shares our view on that.
Questions to Mr Kinnock
Question No 38 by (H-0728/99):
Subject: Male chauvinism in the administration Bearing in mind that the problem of women's under-representation in and exclusion from senior posts is not resolved by the presence of well-intentioned men, what measures will the Commission propose to change the present situation, where 90% of senior posts are not held by women?
The Commission agrees with the honourable Member that women are still under-represented at the higher levels of management in the Commission as well, indeed, as in other institutions.
However I have to say with the very greatest respect to the honourable Lady that it is not accurate to say that women are excluded from those posts, nor is it accurate to attribute chauvinist motives to the Commission.
Since 1988, the Commission has adopted three action programmes with the aim of promoting positive actions and equal opportunities for women within its services.
Special attention has been attached to increasing the proportion of women in management and in middle-management posts.
In 1996 an evaluation of the impact of the two positive action programmes on achieving equal opportunities in the Commission revealed that there had been significant changes in the situation of female staff in Category A and in management posts, particularly as a result of the annual targets adopted by the Commission.
While women accounted for 11.5% of Category A staff in 1992, they represented 19.3% of staff in that category in September of this year.
Women occupied approximately 2% of A2, that is to say director, posts in 1992.
That rose to 11% by September of this year.
The third action programme for equal opportunities for women and men at the Commission, 1997-2000, should consolidate what has already been achieved and go further along the same lines.
Whilst noting these advances I emphasise very strongly that the Commission is not complacent.
On 29 September, the new Commission expressed its commitment to taking further positive action to ensure that a higher number of women obtain posts in senior management positions.
Specific proposals will consequently be made in the course of the forthcoming reform strategy.
Meanwhile the honourable Member will be interested to know that last Wednesday the Commission adopted a policy proposal which I put forward on merit, equal opportunities and geographical balance.
That policy includes positive action to be taken to improve the career prospects of women civil servants.
The college resolved that when there are male and female candidates for senior posts the woman candidate will be given preference.
In addition, the Commission will strive to double the proportion of senior posts taken by women by the end of this mandate.
In short, progress is being made.
My colleagues and I would like it to be faster and broader.
We are working on that.
We hope that other institutions - maybe including this one - will take a similar course, especially so far as senior management positions are concerned.
I am grateful to Commissioner Kinnock for this reply and the positive attitude which underlies it and also - I am sure - the work which he is carrying out.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, I have to point out that in this area of making women' s representation the norm, the Commission has had a hypocritical attitude for more than twenty years.
Its attitude has been a hypocritical "I would like to, but I cannot" , and this hypocritical impotency sends a very damaging signal to the world as a whole.
My question did not talk of exclusion, as you know very well; it talked of the fact that the number of women in high positions stands at barely 10%.
The figures which you have offered - emphatically - here in the plenum of the European Parliament, are ridiculous and shameful.
An institution such as the European Commission, which has for years claimed to be in favour of women also at the highest levels of administration, cannot be satisfied with that exclusion which the figures demonstrate.
And the photographs of the European Councils are a horrific illustration of the sexism of European decision making.
. I would be doing the honourable Member less than justice if I did not respond to her very directly, in the terms in which she phrased her supplementary question.
First of all, if she has a complaint about the lack of women representatives at ministerial level in Member States, I suggest she takes it up with them.
Secondly, I have specifically said, not only in this House now, but over many years and also in the actions I have taken in the twelve weeks I have been the person responsible in the Commission, that we are definitely not satisfied with the number of women in senior posts or indeed in the "A" categories generally in the Commission.
But instead of just talking about it I am trying to do something about it.
I should like to say that in an institution like Parliament where just one director - I repeat, one director - out of ten is a woman then there is some reflection on the situation in this institution too.
I will provide whatever help I can with counselling about the promotion of equality between the genders, and then I do not think the Commission could be accused of hypocrisy.
There has been a consistent effort to increase the numbers of women; there is evidence of that.
Maybe the honourable Member would like to take it up with the various Member States, to encourage participation at the lower grades of "A" category in order to ensure that, as the years go by, there will be more women available to take up management posts.
Here again, I am working in practical terms instead of merely waving my arms around, in order to try specifically to encourage that.
As for the 10% being ridiculous and shameful, I would suggest that whilst the Commission could and should have done more, that is not a result of any lack of motivation or effort.
A Commission which, twelve weeks into its term of office, has made the absolute commitment to strive for a doubling of the numbers over five years is one that deserves patience, if not praise.
Questions to Mr Patten
President.
As the author is not present, Question No 39 lapses.
Question No 40 by (H-0683/99):
Subject: Bridges across the Danube in former Yugoslavia As well as military installations, numerous civil targets were damaged or even destroyed during NATO's bombing raids in Kosovo and/or Serbia, including the bridges across the Danube, the collapsed sections of which are still obstructing navigation on the Danube and thus significantly hampering economic reconstruction.

It is likely that, in the coming winter, the collapsed concrete sections will cause further problems, as they are still resting on the river bed, and many experts fear they could cause accumulations of ice which they have prevented from flowing downstream.
The logical consequence would be for the barriers of ice to cause the level of the Danube to rise considerably, which could cause severe flooding, which in turn would increase reconstruction costs, and this cannot be in the Commission's interests.
Is the Commission aware of this situation and has it already come up with proposals or promised financial assistance to help resolve this specific problem?
I would like to put on record my gratitude to Mr Balfe for his courtesy.
The Commission is aware of the important economic implications of the destruction of the bridges over the Danube for the riparian countries.
It affects not just the bilateral economic relations between Serbia and neighbouring countries, but also other countries along the river, which have traditionally used it as a navigation route between the Rhine and the Black Sea.
Concerns have also been expressed regarding the potential for flooding upstream.
These concerns were recognised by the General Affairs Council at its meeting on 15 November.
The honourable Member is no doubt aware that the authorities in Belgrade are attempting to put pressure on the international community to lift the sanctions against the FRY and rebuild the destroyed bridges by making the re-opening of the Serbian sections of the Danube to navigation conditional upon assistance from the international community to rebuild the bridges.
This is unacceptable.
With the Danube Commission, the Commission is examining the possibilities for clearing the Danube.
We want to be able to help, difficult as the task may be, but we are determined to prevent any clearance of the Danube from being manipulated by the FRY authorities into support for Mr Milosevic.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, I think that the infrastructure in this area in particular represents a very important opportunity for the future.
We are discussing reconstruction in this area.
We are talking about EUR 500 million or a billion, an enormous amount of money, which needs to be invested.
What will you focus on?
On restoring the railways, the roads, air traffic, energy, telecommunications?
Does the Commission have a plan, if agreement is reached, on where investments should focus here?
. As the honourable Member will know, there are a number of projects in the Stability Pact which have been identified for substantial investment in the next few years.
The honourable Member is perfectly correct to say that infrastructure - both repairing damaged infrastructure and providing new infrastructure - is going to be crucial to the economic regeneration of the region.
But I should add this: however much one invests in the infrastructure - and we will be looking at specific pledges at the donors' conference early in the new year - however much one spends on infrastructure, what is crucial is to encourage greater and freer trade between the countries of the region, and even in one or two countries within the countries of the region.
So I totally endorse the honourable Member's reference to the importance of infrastructure investment; but I think encouraging more sensible trading relationships between those countries is also absolutely crucial.
Mr President, from what I can gather from the first part of the Commissioner' s answer, the Commission is totally indifferent to the negative impact the damaged bridges over the Danube will have and is only concerned about how it can make use of this natural disaster - which it in fact helped to bring about - to overturn the legally and democratically elected leadership in Yugoslavia.
This does not create a very good impression.
It is in keeping with the more general policy which the European Union has pursued on this issue.
I would like to hear the Commissioner' s views on this or perhaps some statement to the contrary if I have misunderstood what he said.
I will try to make myself a little clearer to the honourable Member.
We want to make the Danube navigable again by clearing the rubble from the damaged bridges, from the river and the riverbed.
If we are not able to do that then there will be real problems, including flooding of surrounding areas, so we look forward to receiving a proposal from the Danube Commission on which we hope to be able to act as rapidly as possible.
I also hope that, in due course, we can provide reconstruction assistance in Serbia and not just for bridges but for other projects as well.
That will depend on free and fair elections in Serbia and, I hope, on the departure of Mr Milosevic.
It is Mr Milosevic whose policies and presence prevent investment in his country, not those who are declining to invest while he is there.
There is an easy way of helping Serbia back into the mainstream of decent life and economic success and that is to get rid of Mr Milosevic.
Question No 41 by (H-0704/99):
Subject: Action by the EU against illegal trafficking in nuclear, biological and chemical materials Despite serious evidence of illegal trafficking in nuclear chemical and biological (NCB) weapons-grade materials, no serious steps are being taken to combat the problem.
At the same time multilateral deliberations on this matter and agreements on the monitoring of NBC materials are proving inadequate. According to many rumours and reports, these networks are situated mainly in the Ukraine, the Czech Republic and Russia and the illegal trading activities are centred mainly in Constantinople and Budapest, while much of the trafficking is carried out through channels in the Balkans many of which go through Kosovo.
What view does the Commission take of this major problem and what is its attitude towards those countries within whose territory this dangerous and illegal trafficking is taking place, particularly where there is evidence of a cover-up and especially in view of the fact that some of the countries involved are seeking EU membership or association?
. The Commission does not accept the statement that no substantial initiatives are being taken to tackle the problems of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons smuggling.
A good deal has in fact been done.
But the Commission's legal powers have been limited to civilian aspects of nuclear accounting and control under the Euratom Treaty.
This means that the Commission does not have any mandate to deal with the accounting and control of weapons of mass destruction per se.
It is only under the evolving CFSP that Member States are considering expanding EU action to include some initiatives to reduce stocks of weapons of mass destruction.
Member States and the Commission are currently discussing a joint action due for adoption before the end of this year to implement the security and non-proliferation aspects of the common strategy on Russia.
In this joint action, which includes concrete action to destroy stocks of chemical weapons, the Commission has been asked to coordinate European Union action.
We stand ready to take this important additional task on board in consultation with the Member States and Mr Solana and working closely, we hope, with the Russian authorities.
The Commission is heavily engaged in efforts to combat smuggling of nuclear material and radioactive substances.
The Commission initiated a series of special actions to support national authorities involved in combating illicit nuclear traffic from both EU Member States and candidate States, including seminars, training programmes and technical assistance.
The Euratom safeguards office in Luxembourg, in addition to its specific control tasks on the territory of the European Union, has undertaken a series of related outreach activities since 1992.
There is close coordination under the auspices of the G8 and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Preventative actions in the form of cooperation programmes have been carried out since 1992 with central and east European countries, including Russia.
There are areas such as training and strengthening national nuclear material accounting and control systems.
As regards our cooperation with EU candidate countries, cooperation with customs, border control and police institutions is well established under the PHARE horizontal programme on justice and home affairs.
These measures help to reduce the dangers stemming from uncontrolled nuclear weapons material.
However, the Commission recognises the formidable and rapidly-evolving challenge in this field and hopes to be able to address the issue more comprehensively once we have been given the appropriate legal mandates.
Mr President, I used the term trafficking even though it is not quite the right word because there is no trafficking without trade and I do not think that there is any trade in these materials, they are raw materials which go where they can.
However, we all know that, unfortunately, the silk routes were followed by the oil route, then the cocaine route and then the heroin route and now, unfortunately, we are witnessing the emergence of a trafficking route for these materials which are a serious threat to the peace and security of all citizens.
In this sense, and because it seems that these trafficking routes run through countries which have applied for membership of the European Union, the issue has now become a political one and one which merits particular attention.
In this sense, apart from protecting expert scientists with the relevant know-how who must not be led astray due to their specialist knowledge or financial weakness, it is a sine qua non that we adopt a rationale for setting political conditions for applicant countries as to what should or should not happen in their territories.
This has nothing to do with new forms of terrorism, as some people are saying, but rather with new forms of threats and new forms of peace and security for all citizens.
This is a pressing political issue which should be a multinational priority and not just the priority of a few policing mechanisms which may operate within a different culture and which do not understand the new dangers from which Europe must protect its citizens.
I would request that Members wait for me to give them the floor, since this ritual allows the President to direct the debate and also allows the Commissioner to hear the beginning of the question through the interpreter.
This is the second purpose.
. I totally recognise the importance of the issues which the honourable Member has raised.
They are a matter of considerable concern to the Commission and of course they will be issues that we have to pursue vigorously during the enlargement negotiations.
Perhaps, I can just add a couple of points to the rather extensive - perhaps too extensive - answer I gave to the honourable Member's question.
First of all, it is absolutely imperative that there should be the closest possible coordination under the auspices of the G8 and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
It is absolutely crucial that we should work together in this very important area.
Secondly, given that the honourable Member referred in particular to candidate countries, I referred of course to what can be done under the PHARE horizontal programme.
I would like to refer to one particular scheme which promises well.
That is twinning partnerships between European Union Member States and respective national institutions.
They represent a valuable way forward.
They too can be backed by PHARE and they should be part of the programme of action we pursue in order to deal with what is, as the honourable Member said, a very serious problem indeed.
For several years Colombia, as the House will know, has been plagued by civil war, by kidnappings, by violence and by drug trafficking which have seriously undermined the rule of law.
I am deeply concerned, as I am sure all honourable Members will be, about the recent murders including that of a young Spaniard who was working on a European Commission-financed project.
He was killed, together with a priest, apparently by a group of paramilitaries.
The Commission has urged the Colombian authorities to carry out urgent investigations into the circumstances of this crime.
President Pastrana is currently engaged in the struggle to find a negotiated settlement to a conflict which, as the honourable Member underlines, is extremely complex.
The Colombian Government is currently working on the details of Plan Colombia.
Colombia will continue to need strong backing from the international community.
The specific areas where Colombia would like support, including financial support from the European Union and others, still need to be agreed more precisely.
The Commission has already indicated its willingness to support a peace process in Colombia within the framework of Plan Colombia, as it has done in several countries in Central America in recent years.
The Commission would of course take all necessary steps before delivering Community aid to ensure that all parties respect their commitments.
At present, the Commission is focusing on aid for internally displaced persons, on average between EUR 7 million and EUR 8 million per annum, and financially supports a series of initiatives intended to promote human rights in the country.
The Commission covers the bulk of the costs of running the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights in Colombia and has just approved a multiannual programme to support human rights in the Andean region with funding of approximately EUR 11.5 million, the bulk of which will be dedicated to Colombia.
Commissioner, thank you for your reply.
I also very much appreciate your statement on funding a plan to support Colombia, provided that the commitments that were made are met.
Unfortunately, according to Human Rights Watch, some high-level military representatives, who are recognisable, whose names are known and who are responsible for military training and have been involved in various massacres, have still not been removed from their posts, while the terrible collusion between the military and paramilitary groups continues.
I therefore think what Commissioner Patten said is important: these things must not be allowed to go unpunished and they must not be shrouded in silence.
I am also very pleased to learn - and I confess my lack of knowledge on the subject - that there are plans, even important ones, regarding evacuees, humanitarian aid and committees on human rights.
I wonder whether, in view of the peace talks, the Commission can massively increase the aid given to social movements in Colombia and to associations for human rights.
. As the honourable Member well knows, Colombia is a country in the middle of an exceptionally damaging civil war.
I am not sure that the government has very much control over more than about half of its territory and I am not sure how much influence it has on the warring parties or on the human rights violations committed by them.
Our aid goes primarily to the people who are themselves the victims of human rights violations, or refugees who have had to flee from their homes and from their land.
It is precisely these people who most need our support and precisely these people whom we are trying to support the most.
President Pastrana was in Europe a few weeks ago.
I think I am right in saying he gave a speech in this Parliament about Plan Colombia and I enjoyed my conversations with him during that visit.
He indicated that he will be putting forward concrete proposals next February for how the European Union could support Plan Colombia.
When we receive those proposals I will be happy to discuss them with Parliament and to do so in the context of Parliament's understandable concern about some of the reports of human rights violations which alas continue and continue to be reported by reputable organisations such as the one the honourable Member referred to.
We will continue to take the most serious account of human rights violations.
We will do what we can to help those who have had their human rights abused.
I want to refer once again to those who have suffered or even been killed in trying to implement our own European programmes in Colombia.
We are naturally grateful for the information which Mr Patten is giving us.
It is true that there is an office for the defence of human rights in Colombia.
For several years Parliament asked for it, and finally the Commission, together with the United Nations, finances this human rights office in Colombia.
However, those of us who have been here for years know what the words "displaced" (800 000) and "murdered" mean in relation to Colombia.
As well as the Spaniard Egiluz and the Colombian priest Mazo, two journalists have been murdered in recent days.
150 journalists have been murdered in the last ten years.
In many cases, it is perfectly clear that it is the paramilitary groups who are carrying out these murders.
We know that this is a difficult and complex matter, but, Commissioner, I would like to ask you two questions.
Firstly, do you not think that, as well as talking and maintaining dialogue - which in my opinion should always be done -, we should put pressure on the Colombian Government so that, once and for all, it will try to get rid of the paramilitary groups responsible for these acts?
And secondly, is there any truth in the rumours that, in the name of the fight against drug trafficking, the United States may be planning an intervention strategy in Colombia?
And I believe that the European Union should act decisively in that event, because such an intervention would lead to a spiral of violence which none of us want to see.
On the last point that the honourable Member mentioned, we have in fact taken a number of actions to try to help the Colombian Government deal with the very serious drugs problem, including trade preferences, and we will continue to do so.
On the first point that she mentioned, I do not think that the Colombian Government would disagree with the importance of dealing with the paramilitaries.
It is its capacity to deal with them militarily which has been one of the problems over the years.
I very much hope that the present negotiations will deliver to the people of Colombia the peace which they deserve.
In the meantime, what worries me, and I think worries the honourable Member, is the very serious security situation for human rights activists in Colombia.
They have to be extraordinarily brave to do the important work that they do.
There is a limit to the amount we can do ourselves to increase their personal security though we continue to press our concern about that matter on the Colombian authorities.
We will go on doing so.
We also try to monitor the situation very closely with the Member States' embassies in Bogotá.
So we do our best, but it does remain a subject to me of very great concern that so many people, young people for instance, are having to put their lives at risk to try to secure human rights in their country.
First, let me sum up what we have done this year.
The European Community has demonstrated its strong commitment to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
In purely financial terms, in addition to technical assistance under PHARE - EUR 22 million - and the financial protocol, an interest subsidy for EIB loans representing EUR 20 million, we have devoted EUR 143 million of exceptional assistance to help the country to cope with the consequences of the Kosovo crisis.
Just as important, FYROM is the first country to become actively involved in the European Union's stabilisation and association process.
The Council should adopt the negotiating mandate for a stabilisation and association agreement in January.
The year 2000, therefore, augurs well for a substantial increase in cooperation between the European Union and FYROM.
It will be a year of negotiation and, we hope, a year which will culminate in the signature of an agreement.
At the same time, the Commission will continue to accompany the political and economic reform process in this country under the existing cooperation agreement and through the PHARE programme or through the new financial instrument that will replace PHARE.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your positive and specific answer.
Macedonia was the victim first of the Communists and their successors, then it was the victim of two different boycotts and then it was the victim of the war in Kosovo.
It now has a highly multicultural government which is making a conscious effort to forge links with the Albanian sector of the population.
But it needs economic success, otherwise nationalism will break out there again.
Hence my question: first, do you believe that you personally could visit Macedonia in the foreseeable future and, secondly, do you believe, although you have already almost said as much, that an association agreement could be signed by next year?
First of all, I have already threatened the Foreign Minister of FYROM with a visit.
He seemed to welcome that prospect. So I am looking forward to going in the early months of next year.
I have also said that when I go I want to be in a position to open a European Union office in FYROM, because we need a more substantial full-time presence there than we have at present.
I very much hope that we will be able to launch the negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement in earnest next year.
The sooner we can complete those negotiations with FYROM the better; the sooner we can then proceed to ratify the agreement with the Member States.
FYROM is just the first country with which, as the honourable Member knows, we are seeking to negotiate an agreement.
I very much hope that not long after we have begun these negotiations we will be able to move to negotiations with other countries, perhaps first of all, Albania.
But I believe we still have more progress to make there.
Earlier on today we were debating the budget for next year and the difficulty of the European Union finding sufficient finance to fund the operation in Kosovo.
I therefore ask the Commission if it has done any analysis on what the cost would be if there was to be instability in Macedonia; and to what extent - to take him up on his last point - it is true that we need to ensure there is stability in Albania in order to maintain stability in FYROM.
What we should have learnt from the fairly grim experiences of the last few years in the Balkans is that it is much better to prevent instability by early political and economic action than to have to pay later on for the costs of instability knocking on into disaster, not just in one country but in several countries.
That is the story of the last few years.
We talk a good deal about conflict prevention and crisis management.
If we want a very good indication of what would have been the benefits of conflict prevention, again we should look at the Balkans.
I have no doubt at all that instability in Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro would have consequences for the whole region.
I therefore want to see us in a position proactively to support capacity-building, to support economic and social development that, we hope, will prevent that instability.
At the risk of being suspected of reverting provocatively to earlier discussions in Parliament, I very much hope that the important programmes that we are trying to launch in the Balkans will not be held hostage as Parliament and the Council argue and disagree about funding for next year.
I can understand what the constitutional arguments are, what the political arguments are; but try explaining them to somebody without a roof over their head in Kosovo; try explaining them to a pensioner who wants to receive welfare benefit in Montenegro; try explaining them to somebody in FYROM who thinks that the difficult steps that have been taken in that country in the last few years deserve rather more support from the European Union.
I understand that these political arguments rage.
I am sure they are way above the head of a mere Commissioner for External Relations; but I hope I do not find myself next year having to explain these complex constitutional issues to people on the ground in the Balkans or elsewhere in the world who are not getting the support they deserve.
We are grateful to Mr Patten for dedicating his time to this Parliament this afternoon.
Since the time allocated to Questions to Mr Patten has elapsed, Question Nos 44 to 47 will be replied to in writing.
Question No 48 by (H-0677/99):
Subject: Gaming houses The Court of Justice has ruled that the organisation of games of chance is an economic activity constituting the provision of services and falling within the scope of the EC Treaty and that the measures adopted by a Member State with regard to the award of licences to open gaming houses must be proportionate and non-discriminatory (Case C275/92, Schindler). The Italian Government requires proof of effectiveness as a tourist attraction and of the sound financial standing of applicants.
It does not however define those criteria, which leads to arbitrary decision making in many cases. Up to now only four casinos have opened as the result of all the licences granted in Italy (in the United Kingdom there are 119 casinos and in Germany approximately 102).
All the casinos are located in Northern Italy.
This clearly leads to discrimination against the regions coming within Objective 1. In terms of tourist revenue and economic expansion, those regions could benefit greatly from the opening of gaming houses.
Does the Commission believe that the conduct of the Italian Government amounts to an infringement of the Community rules against discrimination and on free competition, having regard in particular to Articles 12 and 86 of the Treaty?
The Commission considers that the position of the Court of Justice is clear as far as the special rights in the games of chance sector are concerned.
The Court recently confirmed that, even if a Member State authorises games of chance, it still has the power to impose limits on the availability of these games and this is in consideration of public interest objectives, such as controlling the desire to play games of chance, the prevention of fraud or crimes occurring and using the profits thus obtained in the public interest.
Each Member State has the power to determine the extent of protection in its territory as regards games of chance.
The Commission is therefore unable to object to the fact that currently in Italy, only four gaming houses have been authorised and that they are located in Northern Italy, since there is nothing that leads us to believe that foreign businesses are being discriminated against, with regard to national businesses.
Commissioner, I believe that this issue holds particular importance within the Member State because the Italian Government' s attitude is not fair but clearly discriminatory.
Recently, the Italian Government denied the request made by a clearly tourist-oriented local authority, Taormina, to establish a gaming house and, at the same time, it authorised Venice casino to open a branch in Mestre.
According to the Commission, does all of this not constitute clear discrimination within a Member State, and moreover, does it not force the inhabitants who would like to play in central and southern regions to go to other Member States - there are hundreds of gaming houses in Europe - rather than staying and playing in Northern Italy, which does not hold great appeal?
Mr Musumeci, I can only repeat the context I have just outlined.
In fact, the situation of gaming houses is different in the various Member States.
We have seen that the Court has confirmed the Member States' power to decide in this field, and I must add, as regards the point you stressed on the distribution within a State' s territory, that competition rules and the principle of non-discrimination do not require Member States to take into account regional considerations when awarding licenses for gaming houses or other permits for the organisation of games of chance.
Competition rules do not raise objections to the criteria that a Member State may use and therefore based on those rules, we cannot consider the decision a Member State makes on the distribution in their territory to be arbitrary, and consequently, a violation of these rules.
Question No 49 by (H-0684/99):
Subject: Communication pursuant to Article 5 of Regulation 19/65/EEC of the Council of 2 March 1965 Has the Commission given due thought to the peculiar nature and diversity of the catering sector in Belgium, which is renowned for its wealth of congenial cafés with countless different types of beer, and the impact which introduction of the regulation would have, in particular the fact that managers of small establishments would suffer?
In the absence of brewery contracts, firms with a large share of the market will stop investing in the cafés where they sell their products; instead they will spend the money on mass advertising to consolidate their market position.
There will obviously be a bitter price war which would have a detrimental effect not only on the smaller breweries but also on managers of establishments.
Is the Commission aware of the fact that the market leaders not only sell their products but often also provide financial support (attractive loans), material support (dispensing equipment, furniture and glasses etc.) and technical support (refrigerating engineers)?
This means that the question is about the sale of beer in Belgium in such mysterious quantities.
The Commissioner has the floor.
Despite the mysterious quantities, your question was very clear.
I think I have understood what Mr Beysen' s question is.
The Commission is aware that breweries often provide café owners with financial, material and technical support.
Nevertheless, the Commission does not share the fear, voiced by Mr Beysen, that the proposed new policy on vertical restrictions could harm Belgian breweries or the hotels, restaurants and cafés sectors.
On the contrary, effective competition will guarantee consumers good service in terms of numbers of bars and the variety of beers they offer.
Firstly, the proposed exemption per category of agreements exempts contracts on the supply of beer that contain a clause prohibiting competition, entered into between brewers who have a market share lower than 30% and owners of bar or commercial concerns.
For Belgian breweries, this means that they will all, with the exception of Interbrew, be able to continue to operate on the basis of the current distribution agreements.
Moreover, the proposed exemption per generalised category allows these breweries greater contractual freedom compared with their freedom on the basis of the current specific exemption in the sector.
Secondly, the proposed exemption per category does not presuppose that non-competition agreements, entered into with a brewery with a market share greater than 30%, are illegal.
A brewery that reaches this market share can notify the Commission of its network of non-competition agreements.
The Commission will then, firstly, evaluate the actual impact of the competition agreements; if the impact is considerable, the Commission can in any case take into account the economic benefits of these non-competition agreements in its evaluation of the possible applicability of an individual exemption under Article 81(3) to the agreements.
Thirdly, if an individual exemption is not applicable to the agreements, the Commission will examine the possible solutions within the existing distribution system.
In other words, the Commission will attempt, as a matter of principle, to resolve any competition issues that might occur, firstly by amending the existing agreements, taking into account the economic benefits they bring.
Mr Beysen will certainly agree that because of its role as the European authority on competition, the Commission must assess very carefully the agreements entered into between operators who benefit from considerable market force.
Indeed, because of their possible effects of closing the market, these agreements can jeopardise competition, not only with regard to producers in other Member States, but also with regard to small Belgian breweries.
This is another reason why the Commission recently launched proceedings against Interbrew.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Commission does not believe that the new policy on vertical restrictions is liable to bring about major structural changes, in the beer, hotels, restaurants and cafés sectors in Belgium, which would put the beer culture in that country at risk.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the thorough answer he was willing to give me and from which it transpires that, naturally, further elaboration was required regarding the policy currently adopted by the Commission.
Nevertheless, I do not fully share the view that competition would therefore not be disrupted, although I have taken note of the fact that you now also provide for a contractual exemption clause.
As far as I am concerned, Commissioner, there is still great concern not only from me but also from within the sector with regard to the lack of clarity which currently - fourteen days prior to the coming into force of this regulation - exists regarding the guidelines on what is and is not allowed.
Although your explanation has shed some light on the matter, I think it is appropriate to also inform the sector of this.
My question in this respect is why should the system be changed if so far, its application has not resulted in any complaints?
Is there too little belief in self-regulation and does one want to push this regulation through at all costs within a sector which, in fact, is already having a hard time?
Mr Beysen, I agree with you that information, in this area as in any other, is important.
For this reason, when drawing up the proposal for a regulation in question, the Commission followed a policy of being open with information.
We are in fact now studying the responses we have received from all the parties concerned following the publication of the proposal in the Official Journal.
Once this assessment has been carried out, we will again consult the Member States and we are counting on adopting the new regulation before the end of the year.
We have communicated fully on every stage, which is the reason why we believe we have performed our duty to inform and consult.
Obviously, the Commission is always willing to clarify any points that might still be unclear.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 50 and 51 will be taken together.
Question No 50 by (H-0688/99):
Subject: Car prices Thanks to widespread publicity, the Commission will be aware that motor car manufacturers are charging considerably more in the UK than in other EU countries for identical cars.
What action does the Commission propose to take to counter this and similar examples of extortion by large companies?
Question No 51 by (H-0747/99):
Subject: Car distribution and competition policy The Commission will be aware that the UK remains the most expensive market for 62 out of the 75 best selling car models and that UK citizens encounter problems on purchasing cars in other Member States.
Can the Commission comment on whether this is a breach of EU competition rules?
What action will the Commission be taking as regards the forthcoming report on the motor vehicle distribution trade with regard to price differentials?
What action can the Commission take so as to remove restrictive practices and to ensure that UK consumers get a fair deal?
I am indeed aware of the price discrepancies between the United Kingdom and other Member States and I share the honourable Members' concerns.
The Commission has found that these differences are partly due to the strength of the pound sterling, while they must in part be attributed to low net prices in Member States with high car taxation.
That is the case in particular in Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands.
I consider that a growing price transparency and the introduction of the euro are increasingly inducing customers from so-called high price markets to acquire their vehicles in other Member States.
This parallel trade is an important market-related factor which should contribute to a better convergence of prices throughout the Community.
The Commission has undertaken a number of initiatives to ensure this freedom for consumers.
In its report on the application of Regulation 1475/95 concerning car distribution, due before the end of the year 2000, the Commission will evaluate the impact of the exempted distribution system on car prices.
It will indeed provide an essential basis for the forthcoming discussion about the future legal framework for car distribution after the expiry of the current regulation on 30 September 2002.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your answer.
In my question I referred to similar examples and whilst car prices are perhaps the most widely publicised, there are other examples of companies that are making a mockery of the single market.
The Swedish Ikea furniture company, with which you will probably be familiar, provides two examples in their recent catalogues: a mirror cabinet which costs less than GBP 70 if purchased in Denmark costs GBP 94 in the United Kingdom.
A corner sofa which costs less than GBP 600 in Denmark costs nearly GBP 875 in the United Kingdom.
These are just two examples taken from one company.
There are plenty of others where people in the United Kingdom and, for all I know, other Member States, are being exploited by companies.
I wonder if the Commission can consider some action to protect consumers who are looking to the European Parliament, looking to the European Commission to protect them as citizens.
Can you consider some action in this area, not just limiting it to cars, which is perhaps the most publicised example?
You will see, Commissioner, that they want to ask you about sofas, not only about cars, but I am sure you will have an answer.
Thank you for this supplementary question.
Indeed I believe that serving the interests of consumers is the cornerstone of competition policy in the European Union.
Should we claim that a single market is really single only when there is unity of prices?
I would not say so, because there will always be factors explaining certain price differentials.
Indeed, we might even perhaps consider that perfect unity of prices in a given market may be an indication of some sort of cartel prevailing in that market.
Having said that, I agree with you that a lot of price divergences in the present-day single market are explained by the frictions and obstacles that still exist.
Two powerful factors are at play today to help the market overcome those divergences and this will be increasingly the case.
One is of course the introduction of the euro.
That of itself is going to make price comparisons easier.
And the second, which is having a powerful effect on the distribution of goods and services, is the Internet.
You ask whether the Commission should not take action vis-à-vis certain instances of considerable price divergences.
Yes, we should and do: in particular if we consider the car sector, you will be aware of a number of actions taken in the past and also very recently in the Commission against limitations imposed by car manufacturers on parallel imports of cars.
The publication of the comparative list of car prices also goes very much in that direction.
The latest edition was published on 22 July 1999.
We agree that the Commission should also use its competition policy instruments for these purposes; and may I submit that it does so.
I am pleased to see that the Commissioner has, along with my own Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, Mr Byers, formed the impression that the European car industry has indeed taken UK consumers for a ride. But I have to say that I cannot agree with you that it is a simple exchange rate issue because it would not account for the fact that some cars cost around four thousand pounds more in the UK than they do, for example, in the Netherlands.
If it were only a question of the exchange rate, then prices should also go down with exchange rate variables.
Why then, for example, do imported cars - which now represent over 70% of the UK market - get dearer as the pound is getting stronger?
How do UK car manufacturers export record numbers of cars to the continent at a time when exporting is more expensive?
Why are cars built in the UK cheaper on the continent just as our pound is making our exports more expensive?
I am afraid I do not accept the logic of this wholly.
I believe - after an 18 months' investigation by a UK newspaper, following your investigation - that time is running out and the car industry now wants to find a settlement to this issue.
If I were to arrange a round table with the industry - with dealers and manufacturers - would you be willing to come along to it and discuss with them how we can find a way through the problem while, at the same time, resorting to competition instruments if we have to?
Thank you, Mrs McCarthy, and for the emphasis on urgency in using competition instruments, which indeed we do.
May I draw your attention again to the fact that we have opened a considerable number of investigations concerning restrictions on parallel imports and, in some cases, we have already reached a conclusion by imposing quite considerable fines.
Of course it would be inadequate to attribute price differentials, in cars in particular, only to exchange rates.
I mention that as one factor - it is not the only one.
Divergences in the taxation of different types of cars are of course a factor but this brings us to the question of how easy or how difficult it is for the European Union to make any decision concerning tax matters.
I also appreciate your offer of an invitation to a round table.
I will be glad to consider that in the context of the various invitations a Commissioner receives.
You are no doubt aware that we are in the process of preparing a report on the application of the current block exemption regulation which is our main area of reflection at present.
We have received many questionnaires in response to our consultation exercise.
The report which is due at the end of the year will not as yet contain any proposals but will analyse the impact of the exempted distribution system which is due at the end of 2000 and will contain a fully-fledged analysis of the impact of the block exemption and this should be the basis for subsequent decisions.
I wonder whether the Commissioner would agree that the last two questioners who were asking the Commission for action would do better to ask their own party leader, Mr Blair, to get the over-high level of the pound - which has been kept too high by high interest rates in the UK - down to a realistic level; and also try to get Mr Blair to start campaigning to join the euro, when there would be extra transparency.
Would that not help?
You will see, Commissioner, that this is a British question, but you have a right to reply if you think it appropriate.
I would be delighted to do so if this important subject were to fall within the competence of the Commissioner responsible for competition which, I am afraid, is not the case.
Question No 52 by (H-0693/99):
Subject: State aid for the German timber­processing industry What action has the Commission taken, or will it take, in view of the increasing amount of state aid Germany is granting to sawmills in what used to be East Germany?
The mills in question are small or medium-sized businesses which are very efficient and thus require so few employees that they meet the EU criteria for the allocation of state aid to SMEs, yet this means they are able to compete on unequal conditions and distort competition on the market.
Does the Commission consider it right that German sawmills which are highly automated and particularly efficient should be granted such huge amounts of state aid that other market operators are forced out of the market owing to unfair competition?
Will it also say whether it still considers the existing rules on the allocation of state aid to SMEs to be adequate, in particular the 250-employee ceiling?
The Commission is aware that the sawmills in what used to be East Germany are granted considerable state aid.
While it is possible that the aid in question is compatible with the German systems and the Treaties, the Commission is very concerned by the distortion that it causes through the concentration of growing levels of production capacity in this particular industrial sector.
As regards the acceptability of this aid, the Commission is carrying out a particularly detailed study of the compatibility with the common market of a series of aid measures for numerous businesses, in particular KNT, Klenk e Pollmeier.
It must be pointed out that this new capacity is to be found in areas that are assisted pursuant to Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty, that is to say, in regions where the standard of living is abnormally low or where there is a serious underemployment problem.
The assessment of the compatibility of all the aid granted has not yet finished, due to the information being incomplete.
The investigation addresses in particular, the issue of respecting the criteria laid down by the relevant regional systems.
Moreover, the Commission has adopted initiatives with the intention of clarifying whether the beneficiaries are complying with all the criteria concerning the definition of small and medium-sized businesses, set out in its recommendation of 1996.
In particular, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that there is no evasion of the regulations.
Businesses which formally respect the criteria for the definition of small and medium-sized businesses - particularly because they have less than 250 employees - but are in fact controlled by a large business, or by a group of large businesses, should not benefit from special incentives intended for small and medium-sized businesses.
Finally, as regards the question of the adequacy of the current rules on the authorisation of state aid for small and medium-sized businesses, an overall study of the subject would be needed.
As for the specific characteristics of the forestry sector, the Commission recently issued a communication on the competitiveness of forestry product industries and related industries in the European Union.
This document, issued in October of this year, states that among other things, with the aim of ensuring the overall, sustainable competitiveness of the European Union forestry industry or related industries, it will be necessary to guarantee an environment that promotes fair competition and to encourage European Union industry to adapt to fiercer competition.
Many thanks to Commissioner Monti for a very thorough answer.
I look forward to the Commission' s continuing, first and foremost, with its investigation into extensive state aid and, especially, to its conducting a general investigation into whether the conditions of state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises should be changed.
I hope to be, and look forward to being, kept up to date on this matter, which means an incredible amount to industry not merely in Denmark but also in other countries, including the western part of Germany.
. This is just to confirm to Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, whose continuing and deep interest in state aid matters is well-known to and appreciated by the Commission, that the investigation is going to continue; that the effective applicability of the provisions concerning SMEs is one of our concerns; and that in all state aid investigations the question of the effects on trade between Member States is at the forefront of the analysis.
Thank you very much, Mr Monti, for being here this afternoon.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 53 to 107 will be replied to in writing.
That concludes Questions to the Commission.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
Statement by the President
Ladies and gentlemen, before we start work, I should like to make two comments.
My first comment is addressed mainly to our new members.
Please speak slowly enough to allow our interpreters to follow your speeches.
If you do not, you will be poorly interpreted, if at all, and the point of your speech will be lost.
My second request is this: please, if at all possible, keep to the time allowed.
I say this not for my benefit, I have all the time in the world, but because new members in particular are not aware of the fact that a plenary session does not only involve us here in front and the interpreters whom you see in the booths; behind the scenes there is a whole apparatus which is responsible, for example, for ensuring at the end of the day that the Minutes are ready for you early tomorrow morning.
These people have homes to go to!
You will be doing us all a favour if you keep more or less to the time allowed.
Thank you for your attention to these preliminary comments.
President.
Mr Gorostiaga, you have a point of order to make?
I would like to make a point of order under Rule 108 related to Rule 112.
In various Spanish and French prisons 18 Basque political prisoners have been undergoing hunger strikes since 1 November.
They are revolting against the denial of elementary human rights by the French and Spanish authorities.
One of the hunger strikers, after 44 days of fasting, has today been transferred to the Hôtel de Dieu Hospital in Paris in extremely poor health after losing 24 kilos.
Eighteen years have passed since the courageous Westminster MP Bobbie Sands and 10 other Irish political prisoners staged a hunger strike to death.
Only when the hunger striker was out of the way did the Thatcherite Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, James Prior, acknowledge that the British Government was ready to accept reforms.
We need, right now, very urgently, before it is too late, a similar statement from the Spanish and French Governments.
We ask this House under Rule 112 to accept this question as an urgent matter.
Mr Gorostiaga, as far as the procedure for urgent debate in Rule 112 is concerned, strict rules apply and the deadline has already expired.
As far as Rule 108 is concerned, you need the backing of one tenth of the members of the House and clearly they have not assembled.
I shall pass your request on but I fear that we can do nothing about this matter at present.
2000 budget (continuation)
The next item is the resumption of the joint debate on the Budget 2000.
Mr President, I should like first to extend my group' s warmest thanks to the two rapporteurs.
If we look back to where we stood at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, then we can see, in our view, just how far we have come during difficult, at times extremely difficult negotiations.
I also appreciate the fact, Commissioner, that you too endeavoured to mediate in the difficult and, in the final analysis, unsuccessful budgetary conciliation, although the conduct of the Commission itself during this whole procedure was not, of course, without its contradictions.
On the one hand, it took too timid an approach to the declaration in the minutes of the interinstitutional agreement and entered into international multiannual commitments while wanting to solve the financial problem for the year 2000 alone during the initial stage.
That was too little as far as we were concerned.
At the same time, we realised that Mr Prodi was already making preliminary plans up to the year 2006 - a decided lack of coordination, Mr President of the Commission.
For the rest, the question naturally arises in the wake of the decisions by the European Council as to what will happen in future with heading 7 of the budget?
Should we not also review the financial perspective, given the option, the option dynamically pursued by the European Council, to enlarge the circle of candidate countries?
No, what we in the European Parliament want is to retain international credibility and a serious budgetary policy in this budgetary procedure even when financing the new priorities.
Parliament is conscious of its responsibility as part of the budgetary authority.
President Chirac' s praise this morning with respect to the budgetary and supervisory function of the European Parliament emphasised this yet again.
We do not want to repeat this year' s experience of acting as a repair shop, with a plethora of supplementary and amending budgets and transfers of appropriations!
I therefore say quite clearly to the Council: by failing to act this week, by failing to endorse the proposals tabled by Parliament under option 3, you have put us in a very difficult position and have pushed us almost to the limit of what we can do under the Rules of Procedure.
Please do not do so again.
We stand today by the offer made by Parliament as a symbiosis between budgetary discipline and the readiness to consider precise reductions rather than all-inclusive reductions, as you intended and, at the same time, to enter into and finance the necessary political priorities.
I would also say on behalf of my group that if you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, are able tomorrow morning to table the written declaration which we have demanded, we are prepared to support and implement the compromise.
I want to be perfectly clear on this: with the relevant declarations by the institutions, including on the question of the limited review of the financial perspective which we expect from the Commission by April, and the corresponding statements from the Council, you are all, to borrow an expression from the money markets, accepting a bill of exchange and anyone who fails to honour the bill will lose their credit rating.
Hence, in view of past experience and in view of today' s discussion, a very clear warning to the Council: if we fail in the spring to reach an adequate solution for the multiannual programme for Kosovo and the western Balkans, combined with a corresponding commitment by the Council, you will end up in extremely dangerous waters as far as the budgetary procedure for the year 2001 is concerned.
We here in Parliament want to avoid this.
It is up to you to ensure that we get both the Budget 2000 and a reasonable multiannual programme to finance these priorities under way.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Budget 2000 is the budget which will take us into the next millennium.
It represents a gesture.
It represents a gesture in terms of political content; but it must also be a gesture of how we should actually have to deal with each other.
I would like to start by saying that we as a Parliament must thank our two rapporteurs in this respect, with respect to the debate of the Budget 2000, for carrying out excellent work, for getting things under way which have been discussed at length in this House.
I remember the new regulation in connection with the Technical Assistance Offices which Commissioner Schreyer referred to this morning.
We had a meeting of the Committee on Budgets last week at which very clear commitments were entered into as far as the future is concerned, so that we can expect to make progress here and exercise control.
We shall support you in a constructively critical manner on this question of the future development of the Technical Assistance Offices.
As far as past experience is concerned, namely the proper deployment of appropriations, we have made a gesture by increasing OLAF staff numbers.
We have made quite unequivocal gestures as far as one of the largest items of budgetary expenditure is concerned, namely agricultural policy.
We want to break away from mere market price support and move towards rural development and additional appropriations will be provided in forthcoming budgets in order to do so.
We have made it clear that only consumers are important in our Europe, which is why we have strengthened the Food Safety Agency, in order to make a gesture at this point, and we have entered relevant appropriations to make up for social weaknesses in the budget, so that progress can be made in combating unemployment.
These are things which have been discussed in this Parliament with great unanimity and on which progress has been made on the initiative and with the support of our rapporteurs.
The decisive point in this discussion or rather the point which caused us the most work and the most worry was of course the question of how to finance properly one of the greatest challenges facing Europe in the coming years?
I refer of course to the Balkans and, more specifically, to Kosovo which will be targeted as a priority next year.
You can rest assured that we in this House will do everything to lay solid foundations.
We made this very clear during the budgetary procedure.
We are interested in having sound foundations so that we do not just lurch from one problem to the next, but so that we can work together on a solid basis for years to come, because the problem in the Balkans is not a problem which can be solved in a year.
We have shown very clearly that we do not just want to demand more here; we also want to do our homework.
We have made transfers in the budget, very specific transfers.
We have not made any general reduction; instead we have said we will make reductions as and where possible.
We have expressly made an exception for non-governmental organisations or aid programmes, such as those to combat AIDS in third world countries, which need all the support they can get.
We have done all this with a great deal of unanimity. This also demonstrates how important these matters are to us.
You have seen for yourself that there is a great deal of unanimity in every debate and in every vote in this House.
Completely irrespective of our ideological backgrounds, we have conducted ourselves in a manner which must have made it clear to you that we take the matter and the manner of our dealings with each other very seriously indeed.
And this will be our motto for the coming years.
I must support Mr Böge all the way on this.
We shall also endeavour in the future to create a basis of trust in our dealings with each other, a trust which was perhaps lacking at several junctures this year, both on our part towards you and on your part towards us.
So we are holding out our hand, as Social Democrats and Socialists, as a sign that, if tomorrow morning you in fact table the declaration as described, we shall support it.
And we shall ensure that there is a proper budget for the year which also offers a perspective.
But we shall also work consistently towards ensuring in the coming years that again we do not lurch from one problem to another but that we have a serious plan on which everyone can build, especially those who really need the money.
In other words those now living inside the European Union and those living outside the Union who have a right to our solidarity.
We shall continue to do our homework in the future.
We shall take our potential as a Parliament very seriously, on that you can depend.
But we shall also make an effort to work more closely with you, so that we do not need, as in this year, to find a solution so close to the end of the year.
When you have trialogues and conciliation, you should use them for their intended purpose so that compromises can be found before the eleventh hour.
We call on you to move towards us and we will move towards you.
But, as we have said, you can be sure that we also know what we can do if we are trifled with!
Mr President, I would also like to start by thanking both rapporteurs for their hard work.
It was not easy this year.
The first lesson we can draw from this year' s budgetary discussion is that the Commission and the Council need to be careful about making statements in public regarding how much money is available for a certain cause without knowing how exactly it will be funded.
This does not seem to bear repetition.
I would like to move on to the budget itself.
Firstly, I would like to focus on the agricultural budget itself. Category 1 A. I question the benefit of the exercise which we started three years ago, the so-called ad hoc procedure that we would refer to the most recent estimates for the following year and establish the budget for compulsory expenditure accordingly.
I can only note that the Council has adhered to July' s budget. The Council' s perspective is, of course, unique, but I fail to comprehend why one should always adhere to what one has established in July.
I do admit that some shifting has occurred between different budget headings.
With regard to category 1 B, I appreciate that the Council has adopted Parliament' s amendment in order to achieve a quality policy for European agricultural products.
At a time when consumers are increasingly anxious about the quality of food, I think that this is urgently needed and therefore meets with my appreciation.
As for the other amendments in category 1 B, my group will support these. At a time of WTO negotiations, when everyone talks about a sound rural policy, it is positive that the European Union pursues an active policy in this field.
Then I would like to comment on category 4 of the budget, including Kosovo. Firstly, I think that Parliament has shown its goodwill by finding the necessary funding for Timor and Turkey within the budget itself.
This has clearly been down to the Parliament' s goodwill.
Another noteworthy fact with regard to category 4 is that we have established that on 30 September of every year, a project surfaces which ties up about 10% of the money and then miraculously, two months later, around 100% of the money is allocated.
How does this inventiveness come about so swiftly?
Would it not be possible to space it out a bit more and, in this context, to take into account the Court of Auditors' observation in this respect?
The group can agree with the method of financing such as it has been regulated provisionally for Kosovo.
It differs quite significantly from the original amounts specified by the Commission.
We look forward to establishing a new budget as soon as possible, should this prove necessary.
The objective of my group is not to dash the financial perspectives as such. We are more than willing to discuss any well-defined proposals, provided they are accompanied by sound arguments.
I am also awaiting the compromise which will hopefully materialise tomorrow regarding payment appropriations.
My group is divided on this matter.
According to some Members, the payment appropriation level should definitely be lowered.
If I have interpreted the noises in this respect correctly, then this will also happen.
As far as we are concerned, Kosovo should not be the cause of an inter-institutional war.
We should be able to solve this matter on the basis of arguments.
Peace in the Balkans is worth a great deal to us.
Mr President, we are now into the last stage of the budget for 2000.
It is the first European budgetary discussion in which I am involved, and I must say that in my inexperience, I have grossly overrated the rationality employed to spend taxpayers' money.
The first party at which we can point the finger must surely be the Council of Ministers. They were so much more concerned with their own national purses than about the people in Kosovo that previous pledges were fiddled.
In Berlin, a protocol was concluded, on the basis of which financial perspectives could be adapted if so necessitated by the reconstruction of Kosovo.
At two Conferences of Donors, the European Union committed itself to contributing EUR 500 million.
According to a report by the World Bank, it is possible to absorb this amount.
A frontload approach (a great deal of money in the first couple of years) is said to be the best way of kick-starting the economy.
The EUR 500 million are necessary, they have been promised and they can be found within the current budget.
It is, however, necessary, so as to prevent developing countries from being presented with the bill, to use margins from categories other than foreign expenditure.
There is, for example, a generous margin in category 1 B, rural development.
Proposals to apply this margin and offer Kosovo prospects for the future, were not even considered by the Council.
The hard lesson of the significance of conflict prevention, the Berlin Protocol, ... rational arguments were discounted when the national ministers defended the agreements of Berlin selectively and undoubtedly worked out in the mean time how much unused funding from the margins they would recover at the end of the year.
Surrealism reached yet another level when negotiations were held regarding this couple of hundred million when Commission President Prodi committed the European Union to the tune of EUR 5.5 billion in political terms for the reconstruction of the entire Balkans.
It is to the credit of the rapporteur that these statements did not remain airy fairy but were given substance in a declaration.
I would explicitly like to extend a warm thanks to Mr Bourlanges for this.
This declaration has in the past couple of weeks been much deliberated and has even today created a lot of dust.
I believe that this will be topic of conversation tomorrow and the day after that.
It is a rather awkward situation.
It is not exactly a model of a rational decision but rather a case of panic stations.
I personally, for example, support Ajax but they manage to marry beauty, speed and tactics rather well.
Since it is as yet unclear what exactly we will be voting on on Thursday, I will indicate which issues meet with agreement within my group.
Firstly, until such time as figures are available regarding the needs in Kosovo, I will keep referring to the World Bank' s report and the EUR 500 million which have been pledged.
I am prepared provisionally to discuss a maximum amount which is under this amount, but I would like to receive confirmation that the multiannual programme which is to be drafted in April, is to apply to the entire Balkan region, including Kosovo, and will run from 2000 to 2006, inclusively.
If necessary, Kosovo should receive the whole share, even as early as the year 2000.
The second point is that the timeframe for allocating funds to Kosovo should also make it possible for the entire share to be spent wisely.
To me, this means that April seems to be the ultimate date for reaching a decision.
The timeframe, together with the possibilities of adapting the present budget, should this appear necessary in April, are therefore crucial to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner. Like Mrs Buitenweg, I too am new to the budgetary procedure but, like everyone else, I know that any budget is, by definition, the expression of political will.
Having seen the final propositions notified to us at the end of weeks of laborious negotiations between Parliament and the Council, I greatly fear that our political will appears, to say the least, blurred and wavering, especially as far as external action is concerned, which is the main bone of contention.
There is a marked gap between the Union' s loud proclamations of its ambition to play a more active role in the settlement of major international problems and the haggling which we are forced to engage in with government representatives when it comes to finding money to fund the new priorities.
My group voted at first reading against any reduction in the appropriations allocated to old but still equally important priorities, especially appropriations allocated to cooperation with and the development of southern countries, in order to fund new expenditure. Robbing Peter to pay Paul has never been an indication of great political imagination.
We therefore voted in favour of a reasonable review of the financial perspectives over several years and the proposal made by our general rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, went in the right direction, calling for a reasonable review of heading 4.
My group therefore supported his strategy to make the Council face up to its responsibilities: either we were to obtain the funding which would allow us to honour our political commitments or we would have recourse to Article 272 of the Treaty, which authorises us to determine non-compulsory expenditure ourselves, albeit within strict limits.
Having made one concession after another, we are now back at square one and, in the name of the cast iron logic of the budgetary stability pact, we now have the following situation: firstly, estimates and financial requirements for the reconstruction of Kosovo which have mysteriously dropped from EUR 500 million - the figure put forward by the Commission, the World Bank, the Member States and the media - to 420 and then to some 300 million; secondly, a reduction in the appropriations which we voted for East Timor and for the victims of the earthquakes in Turkey; thirdly, cuts in appropriations for cooperation, food aid and aid to Palestine and the countries of the southern Mediterranean, the TACIS programme for eastern Europe and support for human rights and, lastly, cuts totalling some EUR 2 billion in payment appropriations.
The result is, without doubt, an improvement on the Council' s initial position but, even so, what would our responsibility be if we were to accept such a compromise?
Let me quote just one example: tomorrow we are going to honour Mr Gusmão the head of the resistance of the people of East Timor.
Shall we, at the same time, tell him that we agree to reduce reconstruction aid for his country by one third?
That is why, Mr President, my group feels that this compromise is unacceptable and we are unable to back it.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to say how much I appreciate the report by Mr Bourlanges, who has done a commendable job throughout this period, regarding the budget but also, in my opinion, regarding two of the main issues we are faced with.
The first concerns Kosovo.
Kosovo has become, objectively, an important political message for the Commission - and quite rightly so - with the aim of relaunching the political proposal put forward by Europe on the international stage, in order to show that there is in fact a serious intervention by Europe, a Europe that is not just about the economy.
We have all approved this political message, but right now, we are discovering that the funds, for their part, do not exist.
My disapproval is aimed precisely at this type of behaviour, because the responsibility cannot be off-loaded onto the House for expenditure which should have been budgeted for.
We do not agree, either myself personally or my delegation.
I would like to emphasise this, so that we will not be given this responsibility in the future, a political responsibility that should not be seen merely in economic terms.
Secondly, I would like to emphasise the promise we were made not too long ago, at the start of the presentation of the budget, on administrative reform of the so-called TAOs.
In my opinion, we might manage to find funds to allocate in the future for the various budget lines if we manage to carry out a fair reform meant to support the various departments which provide praiseworthy support, both on a personal level and for research.
The reform must be carried out straight away, immediately following the adoption of this budget, in order to allow us to proceed to fair planning.
If this is what happens, we will have the chance to intervene, to influence our economies and reach one of our objectives as MEPs: relaunching and developing our countries.
Mr President, I should like first to send a message of appreciation to our rapporteur, a message of support and friendship for the work which he has managed to carry out up to this very afternoon.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you should know that this Parliament, which was prepared to say that the intergovernmental conference should be revised and make a multitude of demands, will tomorrow probably welcome the fact that you decided at Helsinki to allow us two observers, rather than two representatives, and that you wish to confine yourselves to matters which Parliament considered were absolutely out of the question.
It will be the same with the budget, Madam President-in-Office.
Our rapporteur had the vision and the courage to bring us to the point where, for the first time, we were going to have an in-depth discussion of what we would consider fair.
If you want to fund Kosovo, if you want to honour the somewhat hasty commitments which the President of the Commission entered into vis-à-vis this region, then give us the budget resources so that we can be responsible and consistent and give us the chance to revise the financial perspectives.
What you are in fact doing is giving us a little and throwing some ballast overboard.
You agree to give us a few minor flexibility instruments and, needless to say, this Parliament will be prepared tomorrow morning to discredit itself, to abandon the route which it had mapped out and which was the right one, in order to engage in confrontation with the Council on matters of principle.
You stand to gain on this ground too.
It is sad for our institution because once again it has shown that it does not have the other "b" word, it does not have the bravery to make this gesture and stand by it.
Mr President, the budget for the financial year 2000 will inevitably take the form of an increase, and this increase will be higher than the increase in national budgets.
How is it that the Union budget is exempt from the discipline which Europe imposes on its Member States?
I am happy to talk about the unusual nature of the European structure, but we must avoid having one sauce for the goose and another for the gander.
Have we forgotten that the same citizens finance both the national and the Community budgets?
As always, the demand for efficiency has again been put to bad use in order to justify action by the European Union. I shall not refer to the political choices which have been made or the haggling which has formed the basis of the budgetary discussion between the Council and Parliament.
We denounced them at the first reading of this budget.
I make this point because we feel that this is a constant factor in Community policy.
Agriculture is a perfect example.
Agriculture was a hallowed common policy; it was the cement which held the European edifice together and today it is the main loser in the budgetary debate.
We cannot accept that.
This is the price which Europe is paying, once again, for its lack of consistency.
The race towards world prices and increased yields have jeopardised what was most precious to us: the quality of our food and the survival of rural employment.
Our quality of life is being sold off and this too will have to be paid for tomorrow.
These are priorities which we think should be financed, rather than increasing programmes which some of us at least find obscure.
The President of the Court of Auditors yesterday drew the attention of this House to the, I quote, "persistence of the 'spending culture' within the Community, more concerned with the volume of expenditure than with its quality" .
In fact, by wanting to do too much, Europe does nothing properly, which is why the French members of the EDD Group will be voting against this budget, which does not meet the expectations of the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, the budgetary discussion this year has been so strange that, even during the time which has passed between the speech by the general rapporteur, at the beginning of the debate, and my own intervention, the following have taken place, in chronological order: an informal meeting of the Committee on Budgets, a meeting of the budgetary Council and a meeting of the political groups.
This is happening because the interinstitutional negotiation has been very bad.
We have debated the ancillary clauses while the Council was delaying the basic decisions.
And now, when there is hardly any time left, we are negotiating with the clock stopped.
In May, this Parliament experienced a serious confrontation between those of us who wanted Agenda 2000 and the Berlin financial perspectives, and those who, for budgetary reasons and for reasons of domestic politics, did not want the agreement.
In the end we approved it by a simple majority.
But there was still Kosovo and a Council statement which contained a commitment to review the financial perspectives in category 4 for extraordinary reasons.
A war in Europe is always an extraordinary reason, the most extraordinary of all reasons to justify a partial review of the financial perspectives.
In this discussion Parliament has been more up to the job than the Council.
I am sure that the recourse to Article 272 was excessive, and would even have been counter-productive if it had been brought into effect.
But it is also true that it is the extraordinary rigidity of the Council in negotiation which has led us to take this action.
Finally, and simply, under the pressure of having to confront a high level of payments, the Council has performed a U-turn and now accepts what the Parliament requested in the first reading.
Would it not have been simpler to accept these requests by Parliament beforehand and to have prevented all this last-minute panic, which does absolutely nothing for the serious and efficient image which the European institutions are supposed to have?
I welcome this agreement and this commitment.
Parliament is going to finance all its political priorities, including the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which is of prime economic interest to my country, Spain.
But make no mistake: the commitment which we have all made is very serious and a disagreement on the part of the Council would have disastrous consequences not only for interinstitutional confidence but also for the 2001 budgetary procedure.
It is up to you, Council, to see to it that this does not happen, and remember that not even those of us who defended, defend and will defend the Berlin financial perspectives, could accept the ceiling on external actions not being raised, if the figures require it, in April of next year.
chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Mr President, let me get the customary thanks to the rapporteurs out of the way first in case I run out of time at the end.
It is always the right thing to do but on this occasion it is genuine thanks to Mr Bourlanges, to Mr Virrankoski and an additional one on this occasion to Mr Colom for the work they have done in a very difficult procedure.
I would also like to thank those people within Parliament who helped make this budget a success.
Mr Bourlanges mentioned at our first reading the staff of the Committee on Budgets, the long hours they work, not only at nights but at weekends also, to make sure that we can function.
Also thanks to all the political group staff. That includes Mr Westenbroek who sometimes gets right on my nerves but thank you to all those who have helped us get this far.
Let us not lose sight of what is in this budget.
We are talking about one issue which is how to fund Kosovo but there is a lot in this budget that we should be proud of, as Mr Walter and others have already reminded us.
The last time we were in a budget debate, I think, I saw the Council benches absolutely empty.
This must be a very serious debate when I see the number of people who are here from the Council.
If we put their numbers together, and the Commission numbers together, they probably outnumber the Members in this Chamber, which signifies that they are looking forward to something being said.
Whether that be from our side or from your side, Madam President-in-Office, I am not too sure, but they are here to keep their eye on somebody.
I intend to ask questions, Mr President, and I hope we can find a solution to them tomorrow.
Yesterday when we voted in our committee we took a position which I, and I think the vast majority of our committee, are quite happy with.
Let me say this: we have no problem.
You do.
And now you are looking to us to get you out of a problem.
I do not blame the Finnish President at all. You have been quite honourable in your dealings with us.
It is the ones behind you who have been giving you a lot of problems.
We know that.
Quite frankly, we have got into this mess and now we are being asked to bail you out.
Let me try and get some clarification on what you said in your speech, Madam President-in-Office.
I have called a special Budgets Committee meeting for tomorrow at 9.15 a.m. or thereabouts when the votes are finished and we will vote on the Colom report and we will vote, if need be, on changes to Mr Bourlanges' report.
But we need some clarification on some issues.
I turn to the Commission because within the text there are three declarations and the first is a declaration from the Commission.
The original text had the figure EUR 5.5 billion which has been mentioned by Mrs Buitenweg.
The Council has actually taken that figure out.
I am asking the Commission to clarify that it is a figure of about EUR 5.5 billion we are talking about when we talk about the aid that is needed for Kosovo and the Balkans in the light of what President Prodi and Commissioner Patten said.
So, some clarification is needed from the Commission.
In category four, and before I request clarification there, when the President-in-Office mentioned help for places like Kosovo and East Timor, let me remind the Council that it did not put any money on the line for East Timor - we did.
Even at the second reading it did not put money on the line - we did.
If you had not agreed the EUR 125 million for Morocco - even before we had an agreement - we probably would not be in the position we are in now.
But that is another matter.
I need clarification on three things for our committee meeting tomorrow.
We have had a chat about this, but I want to hear you say it here tonight.
When I was noting down what you were saying, in English you said that the ceiling for heading 4 should not be amended permanently.
You clarified that by saying: the words 'at this moment' should also be added.
Let me try and simplify it.
Can you confirm that in that phrase you are talking only about the year 2000?
When you talk of no revision for category 4 being necessary are you talking only about the year 2000?
That is the first thing we need to have clarified.
The second thing we need clarified is this: on the EUR 2 billion in payments of compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, can you confirm that this is the position of the Council - meaning the Member States and not just you?
Can we assume that will not be challenged before we take our vote tomorrow morning?
Thirdly, can you produce in writing your position for our meeting tomorrow so that Mr Colom i Naval can make proposals?
If we get those things clarified I think we can get the solution the Council is looking for.
Let me say one last thing.
We all have to learn lessons from this and the one that the Council must learn more than anything else is, not to take Parliament for granted.
I too should like to start with a thank you to my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets.
As Greens, Mrs Buitenweg and I are both new to the Committee on Budgets and we had some difficulty settling in.
But I must say that, in contrast to national politics, what is striking in Europe is that practical politics are not party political and the European Parliament is aware of its responsibility on material matters, a responsibility which was, of course, heightened or highlighted by the poor turnout at the European elections.
We all know that we must present the citizens of Europe with a solid policy on the budget and on budgetary control and that we must ensure that both are efficient and transparent.
I consider that the European Parliament has been successful on this point in these budgetary negotiations.
I think that we leave these budgetary negotiations a stronger Parliament, in my view a very important point.
The Council must finally get it into its head that there is one thing you cannot do and that is to take on more and more at European level without entering into serious negotiations with Parliament as to how these additional commitments are to be financed.
The matters at issue this year were not only Kosovo, East Timor and the earthquakes in Turkey.
We all know that enlargement to the east was also an issue.
We all know that the conclusions of Helsinki in relation to Turkey, and in relation to enlargement to the east in general, mean that we will be taking on even more sooner or later.
That is why we need to fall back on serious negotiation as far as the budget is concerned and the Council can rejoice in the fact that this European Parliament has grown in stature and political awareness with its responsibility on budgetary matters.
We shall ensure much more emphatically in the future that there is proper implementation of the budget at European level.
Mr President, the European Parliament came out clearly in favour of a review of the interinstitutional agreement at first reading of the budget in order to be able to honour the commitments in connection with the fisheries agreement, aid to Kosovo, aid to East Timor and support for the victims of the earthquakes.
We made it clear by a large majority that new political priorities must not be financed at the cost of other, unfinished tasks.
The compromise negotiated between the Council and Parliament which lies before us today takes no account whatsoever of this basic position of Parliament.
I seriously wonder where exactly the compromise lies, what justification we have for using this term.
We are struggling for social justice in the world. That does not mean taking appropriations from the poor in one part of the world and giving them to the poor in another part of the world.
Reducing appropriations for social tasks in order to fund foreign policy challenges is not a solution.
A budget which is designed on such lines and which, moreover, does not even provide sufficient appropriations for the so-called new priorities, takes all our political declarations and resolutions to the point of absurdity.
Parliament must therefore say no to this pseudo compromise.
What is needed is the courage to draw the obvious conclusions from the development of European integration and to provide the EU with sufficient funds to carry out its tasks.
It is high time that we really started thinking and acting as Europeans and establishing fully justified individual interests in this context.
It is unacceptable to continue acting in this upside-down way in budgetary and fiscal matters.
Parliament should stand firm on its demand for a review of the financial perspective.
The financial room for manoeuvre needed to do so can be created within the framework of European Union decisions, namely by setting the use of own resources from gross domestic product at a higher level.
If we want to stop patching things up every year, then we must turn our serious attention to the question of the reform of European own resources.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, between the first and second readings of the draft budget for the year 2000 we have added EUR 3.5 billion, in other words another three and a half billion in taxes.
This would not be much if the money were not squandered in and, above all, outside Europe.
In Europe, appropriations for the reconstruction of Kosovo would have been saved had we not destroyed Kosovo on the basis of alleged massacres ascribed to the Serbs as the OSCE has now admitted.
Especially as we are redirecting EUR 110 billion allocated to rural development in order to finance Kosovo. In other words, we are robbing our own farmers in order to pay the Albanians in the name of the principle of "you first" .
It is as unhealthy as the fact that half our debates here this afternoon have been devoted to a province of the Serbian State which is not even a member of the European Union.
It is true that, as far as the European budget is concerned, the worst offences are committed when we pour money outside the continent of Europe: EUR 10 million for Central Asia, EUR 14.5 million for the displaced people of Latin America, EUR 4 million for human rights in South Africa and Timor etc., etc. That would be all well and good if, at the same time, we were not planning to cut EUR 5 million from appropriations for our beekeepers who face competition from adulterated honey from abroad.
While we are spending money here, social austerity is being imposed in our 15 countries.
Doctors and nurses in French hospitals, who are among the most qualified in the world, are today on strike because budgetary austerity has just cut back hospital expenditure and health expenditure.
This situation is all the more disgusting in that, at the same time, we are paying EUR 45 million to ACP banana producers, some of which are American multinationals established in Cameroon and the Ivory Coast and which are being paid EUR 45 million under this European budget.
This, then, is stupid spending on top of customer spending on top of ideological spending. It all adds up to a lot, it adds up to much too much and that is reason enough to vote against it.
Mr President, if there is one issue on which the Council and Parliament should follow the same line of action, then surely it is the reconstruction of Kosovo.
But this is not in the offing as yet.
Parliament and the Council have turned Kosovo into an affair of honour over the financial ceiling of category 4.
This is taken to such an extreme that the rapporteur even threatened to include only EUR 115 million into the budget instead of the EUR 500 million which is required.
If this were to happen, then the Kosovars would be the big losers.
The only lifeline which then remains is a supplementary and amending budget later on in the year.
But the negotiations for this budget will also be extremely difficult, especially if they are linked to a debate regarding a multiannual programme for the entire Balkans.
It is therefore of key importance that a compromise is reached between the Council and Parliament regarding Kosovo before next Thursday.
An agreement is within reach, especially now the Council seems to agree to a smaller reduction in the payments for the structural funds.
Alongside an agreement on Kosovo, the Council and Parliament will also need to agree, in time, on an aid programme for the entire Balkans.
How can this be financed?
The extent of the financial package for the external policy, as laid down in Agenda 2000, seems to suggest that the European Union, in this respect, only has a subordinate task.
This is also true of the Balkans.
Consequently, the Council' s attitude is one of ambivalence.
On the one hand, it refuses to raise the financial ceiling for category 4 and this is only right.
But on the other hand, the willingness of the Member States to contribute to financing the Balkans falls far below the mark.
As a result, the European Union budget is stretched, which will have a detrimental effect on the developing countries.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, one may well say, a good thing is worth waiting for, but we have waited almost too long for this still to be good.
I only have to think back to this afternoon and I must say in no uncertain terms that the situation is highly unsatisfactory and that we, the European Parliament, are now being more or less forced to circumvent our own Rules of Procedure in order to rescue and salvage what can be salvaged.
I should like to repeat once again that the situation as a whole is highly unsatisfactory.
It is unsatisfactory because - and this was also apparent at the Summit in Helsinki - we have a Council which blithely makes promises and then the budgetary authority, to which the Council also belongs, after all, then has to consider how everything can again be brought under control.
In addition, it is the first budget which we are required to implement in accordance with the decisions taken in Berlin on Agenda 2000 and we are already in a situation in which these decisions, yet again, cannot translate the Council' s wishes in financial terms.
More and more problems will arise in the coming years when everything decided in Helsinki - and I am thinking in particular of enlargement - finally impacts on the budget.
So what I expect, and this has been addressed by previous speakers here this evening, is a bit more consistency between what the Foreign Secretaries decide and what the Finance Ministers decide.
I think this can be established by each government in its own Member State, and that we can then find a joint solution to the problems.
The second matter which I would like to address is that of the Technical Assistance Offices, which have also played a special role in the past.
We here in Parliament have already clearly shown where the responsibility lies and have proposed clear solutions.
I should like to extend my particular thanks on this matter to the rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, who has been firm in making clear proposals with the support of this House.
If anyone has done justice to their responsibility in the procedure for Budget 2000, then it was the European Parliament.
I should like to stress once again at this point: we cannot keep on moving hand over hand, as it were, from one budget to the next and from one crisis to the next; on the contrary, the Council must pave the way so that we can put an end to such problems once and for all!
As far as the small budgets are concerned, and here thanks go to Mr Virrankoski, we are on the safe side and everything is under control.
I think that Parliament too, with its own budget, must do as it would be done by.
That too is a very important point.
I refer in particular to travel costs for officials on active service, another problem which requires an urgent solution, and all the other points which, in my view, we solved at first reading and which we can now clear up once and for all.
Mr President, to be a rapporteur or not to be rapporteur?
That is the question, if you will allow my immodesty.
Rarely have there been so many supporters of a Colom report in the Council.
I wonder where I am going wrong.
The Berlin European Council was obsessed with budgetary cuts, and not only gave rise to a reduction in the funds for structural policies compared to levels reached in 1999, but also forgot that there were other Community policies.
It appears that the Council deliberately daydreams about a European Union which will cost them nothing.
After a struggle, in six weeks of Council-Parliament negotiations, we tidied up headings 3 and 5.
But although we were negotiating while Kosovo was being bombed, the Council refused to adapt category 4 to something so obvious as the fact that, within a few months, the Union would be involved in its reconstruction, would have to provide humanitarian aid and would certainly have to compensate Romania and other countries, as well, for the losses suffered in trade on the Danube.
I believe that this a problem of short-sightedness.
Apparently, the Council cannot tell the difference between the financial perspectives, the multiannual framework for the budget and the budget itself.
To my mind, the Council is like one of those people whom you cannot ask to post a letter, because they cannot tell the difference between a letterbox and a drain-hole.
Exact figures are requested for something that can only be estimated approximately.
I took part in the negotiations and the Council' s only coherent argument is that we should not prejudice the Union' s negotiating position in the Conference of Donors.
For this there was a proposal and it seems that we have adopted it and this is the solid position we have taken.
The figures are confused.
The Commissioner spoke of EUR 500 million for 2000, on the same day that the President-in-Office of the Council spoke of EUR 12 billion for a period of seven years.
This clearly has to be resolved.
But we can wait, if necessary, for better figures, although we could make perfect use of the budgetary framework.
I believe that there is a time for everything, but we could deal with this problem perfectly - and much better - by means of an amending budget I/2000.
In that way we would also fulfil the wishes of the Council which aims for permanent budgeting.
Mr President, we endorsed the European Parliament' s strategy at first reading of the budget for 2000 and we now believe that the European Parliament cannot and must not lose face, because that would risk it losing credibility as well.
I say this in the context of the perspectives that are being presented to us in the current phase of the process.
I have no doubt that the latest proposal for a solution adopted by the board of the Committee on Budgets does not carry the negative burden from which the Council' s proposal suffers.
Even so, it does not provide any grounds for enthusiasm and all the indications are that it might even be made worse by new, unacceptable commitments.
In fact, and in the way this proposal for a solution was adopted, it can already be deduced from it that it is dropping the idea of a revision of the financial perspectives relating to heading 4 as well as the principle of new objectives being matched with new means.
It is therefore and inevitably resulting in an extremely arbitrary cut under the same budgetary heading of a sum of EUR 150 million, which particularly affects food aid, cooperation, the Mediterranean and the TACIS programme.
Apart from this, the ECO programme itself will also lose EUR 35 million in comparison to the first reading.
It is obvious that we cannot be satisfied with this kind of solution and our vote will certainly reflect this.
This is not a retreat by the European Parliament, but it will result in some priorities for the present financial year continuing to be paid for at the expense of previous objectives.
I shall also add that this kind of solution will also reduce sums destined for some priorities that have already been stated, specifically for Timor, which has gone from EUR 30 million to EUR 20 million.
We are obviously delighted that the heading that we proposed for Timor has been adopted and provided with appropriations, but as we stated at first reading, and now for even more reasons, we think that the appropriations earmarked for it are clearly insufficient.
These are the reasons that cause us to see the present budgetary process as clearly unsatisfactory.
Mr President, the EU' s Budget for the year 2000 is a genuine step in the right direction.
Let us not forget that the priorities we are setting relate to important matters.
We are investing in environmentally friendly agriculture, in the protection of animals and plants and in safe food.
We are increasing our efforts in support of vulnerable groups and in the fight against poverty in Europe.
We are investing in the fight against unemployment and, especially, in local employment initiatives.
We are preparing for the enlargement of the European Union to include new Member States and we emphasise that this process must be given a broadly citizen-oriented dimension.
The dialogue between the two sides of industry in the labour market must be extended to include the applicant States, and we want the Committee of the Regions to have the chance to develop a dialogue at local and regional level.
I myself have tabled a proposal concerning a means of achieving decentralised cooperation around the Baltic.
In spite of setting these priorities, we have nonetheless succeeded in reducing our budget commitments.
It was therefore naturally depressing that, as late as yesterday, we had not reached a final conclusion, despite the significant degree of essential unity.
I personally have been hoping for a compromise all this time.
We ought of course to be able to reach a compromise because, in my view, Parliament has already moved a long way in order to achieve this.
We have set aside the position we had adopted on principle to the effect that we ought now, before the year 2000, to revise the budget ceilings. This is because the Council wants to add major new items of expenditure in connection with Kosovo, East Timor and Turkey, among other issues.
We have accepted large reductions in payments in spite of the fact that we already have a mountain of payments before us.
It is not possible to decide upon major commitments year after year and then not, in fact, to pay out.
In spite of our opposition to linear cutbacks in aid, we have agreed to make substantial reductions, but of a more targeted nature.
It is important to note here that there is not in fact any prevailing disunity on the subject of Kosovo. I am therefore pleased that the Council now seems to be coming back to Parliament and approving our proposals.
The people of Kosovo ought not to continue to suffer because we cannot agree about the Budget.
Now, there is one more thing that is important. If we are going to cope successfully with the future, with the enlargement of the European Union and with developments in the Balkans over the next few years, then we must find a better way of cooperating.
Let us learn from the debate we have now had.
Mr President, whatever the budgetary sleights of hand to finance aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, the Council, like Parliament, is refusing to address the real issue, which is that the reconstruction of Kosovo, like Serbia, which is in equal need of reconstruction, should be financed from the military budgets of the countries responsible for the bombing.
The military budgets should likewise pay the sums needed to compensate the neighbouring countries of Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, which all suffered from the war waged in the region by the West.
Even though there is no excuse for Milosevic' s past and present policy with regard to the Albanians of Kosovo or with regard to his own people, the few crumbs which have been thrown to reconstruct Kosovo alone, crumbs which bear no relation to the money spent during the actual war, cannot hide the fact that, once again, western intervention in the Balkans has not only failed to solve the problems in this part of the world, but has made them worse.
The countries in the region which were already poor are now poorer still, the living conditions of their people have deteriorated and the bombs certainly did not put an end to the chauvinism at which they were targeted.
The purpose of our refusal to vote in favour of the Bourlanges report is both to denounce the limited and derisory aid envisaged and, above all, to denounce the policy of the western powers in the Balkans.
Mr President, as European construction evolves, it is only natural that the mechanisms of democratic control should be strengthened.
Some of this responsibility falls to the European Parliament, specifically through the assessment that precedes the approval of the budget.
It is important that we do not limit ourselves to carrying out a series of formalities, without content or consequence, because that would entail the risk of reducing ourselves to a type of democratic alibi.
This would be a betrayal of the citizens we represent.
The message given at the discussion phase for the 2000 budget must then be taken seriously.
The European Parliament wants the assumption of new responsibilities by the European Union to be matched by new financial resources.
This applies to Kosovo, to the Balkans and to any budget heading.
It makes no sense to maintain recourse to initiatives completely lacking in transparency, such as the under-budgeting of new commitments or of payments for them, or both, linked to linear cuts in old commitments or payments, the inevitable consequence of which is delays in both as well as dozens of transfers throughout the year.
If the problem is a result of the European Union system of revenues it appears that the solution must be to change the system of financing the European Union.
I shall finish by referring to three situations which I shall continue to highlight: firstly, the intolerable delays in the fulfilling of payments relating to the implementation of the policy of cohesion.
Some delays I am aware of result in the negation of the principle of economic and social cohesion.
Secondly, there is also the support for the reconstruction of East Timor, because we have to adopt resolutions which draw attention to the situation there.
Finally, we are right to award Xanana Gusmão with the Sakharov Prize, but at the same time, let us be aware that the EUR 20 million that the 2000 Budget has earmarked for East Timor merely represent the starting point.
Finally, I hope to see the commitments given to the outermost regions, identified at Amsterdam by Article 299(2) of the Treaty on European Union.
Mr President, we are the only true political think-tank in the European Union and so we ought to safeguard the priorities set out in Agenda 2000 which the first budget endeavoured to override.
It was wrong to introduce cuts in agricultural and social expenditure and in external actions concerning third countries.
New policies need new resources.
A total reform of the financial perspectives is essential.
Sadly, we failed to include appropriations for natural disasters in the budget just as we failed to allocate appropriations for the accession procedures of Malta and Cyprus.
I am not an economist, I am a politician; however, I would just like to make mention of the exceptional work of Mr Bourlanges and the other corapporteurs which I hope will help in reviewing certain issues so that we can assess the extent to which the Commission implements those political decisions in the budget and whether their implementation does in fact achieve the desired results.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, a happy circumstance: two ladies at the head of two institutions deciding a matter of the utmost importance. For the first time, women are in the majority at European level.
My congratulations!
They say that new brooms sweep clean.
We are facing a major problem. The Commission discussed and decided its employment policy 2000 today.
The question which must be asked time and time again in connection with the budget is: how can we ensure that the employment situation in Europe improves?
I think there is an urgent need to consider which budget lines can be used to create employment in Europe, which budget lines can be used to secure jobs and which budget lines destroy jobs.
I think these considerations need to be analysed more seriously in research programmes and the necessary conclusions drawn from them.
A second important confirmation is the confirmation of the posts for OLAF.
The fight against fraud must be a priority for us.
We have noted that our budget is in fact about the same size as the fraud perpetrated in numerous cases.
We are talking here, perhaps in inverted commas, about a few million, while several billions are being lost through fraud, which is why I see the creation of OLAF as being of prime importance.
I hope that, with OLAF, we can manage to ensure that honest and decent people on the market will again be given a better chance, as will those who dutifully pay their taxes and help to ensure that our social system functions properly.
I too should therefore like to thank the members in particular for increasing the budget line for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises by 15 million euros.
I think it is the right way forward, because this sector creates new jobs, presents the greatest growth and pays the most taxes.
When we talk of giving, we should also think about what we will be taking.
Small enterprises make a very special contribution here, which is why the START programmes and support programmes are particularly important, because they show that we sympathise with small enterprises.
We have also set aside 10 million for digital applications.
This is the sector which will have the highest employment in the future.
Commissioner Liikanen has told us that, up to the year 2002, some 1.2 million jobs will probably remain vacant in the multimedia sector due to a lack of training.
That should give us food for thought.
We should focus on the sectors in which we can earn money, the sectors which guarantee that the European Union too will have enough money in the future to be able to tackle the problems of this planet.
Mr President, Mr Wynn asked me three questions, which I briefly answered.
Firstly, he asked what I meant in my speech today when I referred to the category 4 financial framework.
My almost exact words were that it was the opinion of the Council that the financial framework for category 4 should not be amended permanently at the moment.
I was obviously speaking about the budget for 2000, in which the Council' s proposal for compromise involves the use of the flexibility instrument with regard to category 4.
In the future, obviously, the Council will investigate all the proposals the Commission will make.
Mr Wynn' s second question concerned the two billion cut in compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
The basic principle here is that the rules of the Council lay down that the President-in-Office represents the position of the Council and that, as the person to hold that position, I am therefore presenting the position of the Council and replying on its behalf.
Thirdly, the document based on the compromise has now been sent to Parliament' s Secretariat.
Does that answer your question Mr Wynn?
Mr President, it clarifies points 1 and 3 but I am not sure about point 2.
I will settle for clarification on point 2 at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning if that is necessary, but I was not sure exactly what you said on the second point.
Mr President, I did not understand a thing; I especially did not understand about point 1.
Mr Wynn asked a specific question.
You were asked to clarify your solemn declaration at the end of this afternoon' s debate when you said, if I correctly understood the translation which I heard, that the Council opposed a permanent review. (I am not about to say what a permanent review is but as you were the one who said it, you should know what it means.)
You said that the Council opposed a permanent review "at this moment" . "At this moment" does not mean a thing.
Mr Wynn asked you, Madam President-in-Office, if "at this moment" meant that the Council was opposed to a review of the financial perspectives for the year 2000, which would appear to us to be perfectly in keeping with the compromise which is being forged, or if "at this moment" meant something even vaguer?
You were asked to reply, and you said that you would reply but your reply was incomprehensible.
So please clarify, enlighten those of us who are not clever enough to understand when others speak in tongues.
In order to clear up this point, I shall call upon you once more, Madam Minister, and then the Commission.
Mr President, with regard to the declarations which have been spoken of, they have been adopted in just the form that Parliament proposed them.
I do not see anything vague here.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, once again, to clarify the point, the text is ready.
To answer the question, it is the text which was negotiated and which you had before you at the last sitting on Monday.
Mr Wynn asked me a question about the figure of EUR 5.5 billion.
At the OSCE Summit in Istanbul, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, addressed the political task in the entire region of the western Balkans for the period from 2000 to 2006, announcing that the Commission was considering a sum in the order of EUR 5.5 billion as the support needed.
You, the Parliament, have now called on the Commission to submit specific estimates for this region and this period in the form of a multiannual plan.
We are working on this.
I would ask you not to make any preliminary commitments but to bear in mind that the Commission must submit a precise and specific estimate for this period and this region which can and, of course, will then be checked by the Committee on Budgets or rather the budgetary authority and Parliament.
Allow me to finish by saying that the debate this evening has illustrated once again that the negotiations were difficult.
The Commission appreciates the efforts made by Parliament, and the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets in particular, and the efforts made by the Finnish Presidency of the Council.
But I think that, if the result is a good one, then the effort will have been worth it and I hope that a good last-minute solution really can be found tomorrow morning.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Appointment of 8 members of the Court of Auditors
The next item is the report (A5-0090/1999) by Mrs Theato on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the appointment of eight members of the Court of Auditors [C5-0231/1999, C5-0232/1999, C5-0233/1999, C5-0234/1999, C5-0235/1999, C5-0236/1999, C5-0237/1999, C5-0238/1999 - 1999/0820(CNS)].
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the term of office of eight members of the European Court of Auditors will expire at the beginning of next year.
I am sorry that the Finnish Presidency of the Council is now leaving us because the Finns also wish to reappoint their present member of the Court of Auditors.
Under Article 247 paragraph 3 of the Treaty founding the European Community and other similar provisions in the ECSC and EURATOM treaties, Parliament must give its opinion on the candidates before the Council unanimously appoints or reappoints the members of the Court of Auditors for a period of six years.
The Council asked Parliament to give its opinion in a letter dated 3 November 1999, which also contained the names and curricula vitae of the candidates.
The candidates for new appointments were Mr Reynders from Belgium, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn from Ireland, Mr Caldeira from Portugal and Mr Fabra Vallés from Spain and the candidates for reappointment were Mr Mohr from Denmark, Mr Salmi from Finland, Mr Clemente from Italy and Mr Karlsson from Sweden, in alphabetical order of the proposing countries.
As required under Article 35 of our Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Control interviewed and questioned the proposed candidates individually on 22 and 23 November 1999 on the basis of the provisions of the Treaty which require that candidates must hold or have held or be particularly suitable for an auditing office.
Impartiality is the most important requirement.
We also based our deliberations and appraisals on the guidelines in the 1992 and 1995 parliamentary resolutions by Mr Lamassoure and Mr Bourlanges.
As a result, I am in a position to inform you that, having conducted a detailed examination, the Committee on Budgetary Control has come to the conclusion that the candidates meet the criteria for high office at the Court of Auditors and has returned a positive opinion on all eight candidates.
We particularly welcome the fact that, if Parliament gives its assent, the 15 members of the Court of Auditors will include two women.
I recall that our condition at the last appointment was that at least one of the candidates for appointment should be a woman and that Parliament would not otherwise give its assent to the appointments.
We had one woman then, and another has now joined her.
I think we are making good progress.
If plenary votes as scheduled, i.e. on Thursday, we in Parliament will have fulfilled our duty to state our opinion on time, thereby allowing a smooth changeover in the composition of the Court and ensuring that the necessary collaboration with it continues.
These are the conditions which govern the procedure.
But, looking to the future, there is more to it than that for Parliament.
On Monday we discussed the Court of Auditors' report for 1998.
It highlighted a number of very important tasks which we must now tackle.
I refer mainly to the fact that the Court states quite clearly in its report, and I can only emphasise this, that we must change the spending culture.
The Court of Auditors gave some very important indicators here.
Having discussed the Budget 2000 in great detail in Parliament and paved the way so that in crisis areas, such as the Balkans, there is multiannual planning of funding, we must now gear ourselves to that perspective, instead of frittering money away on small, individual programmes and projects, which are not conducive to efficient control and where more is spent on staffing than on the objectives to be achieved.
What we want is to work in a target-orientated and not an expenditure-orientated manner.
I therefore readily agree with the Court of Auditors: we need better financial management.
Some of the Commission' s proposals as to how this should be done have now been tabled and Parliament must also give a detailed opinion on them.
We can no longer afford for large swathes of the people in the European Union to say no to Europe.
We must all work on this; we must listen to what the Court of Auditors has to say and include it in our appraisals so that we again hear a positive response from the people of Europe to what it is that joins us together.
Mr President, as the authority of the European Union increases, so too does the importance of the European Court of Auditors, which has been an independent body of the Community since the Maastricht Treaty.
However, the quality of a body or an institution stands or falls with the people who bear the responsibility in it, which is why it is particularly important that candidates with the right specialist skills who are strong and independent of character be elected as members of the Court of Auditors.
Because the task of the Court of Auditors is not always a pleasant one.
The members of the Court of Auditors must monitor careful spending of European funds and be ruthless in pointing out irregularities.
As far as spending by the European institutions is concerned, the confidence of the citizens of Europe has gradually been shaken in the past.
It is, above all, thanks to the Court of Auditors that shortcomings have been uncovered.
Now, however, we need to restore the confidence of the citizens of Europe in careful spending by the EU.
The work of the Court of Auditors and its members will therefore be even more important and difficult over the coming years than ever before.
All the challenges - enlargement, international competitiveness, sustained high unemployment - are linked to the question of funding and the remit of the Court of Auditors could change as a result.
I think that its preventative work will increase.
In my view, the eight members who were interviewed long and hard in the Committee on Budgetary Control have the qualities needed to carry out this work to the satisfaction of all concerned.
I hope that you have the courage and strength to touch unerringly on sore points in the future, should it prove necessary.
A strong Europe also needs a strong Court of Auditors.
However, I make no bones about the fact that the Court of Auditors is weakened because the proportion of women is not high enough, let alone representative.
This is a considerable fly in the ointment of the composition of the Court, even though the present candidates include a very impressive lady.
The appeal to the Member States to propose women for this job therefore stands. It must have got out even in Europe that women too can count and they certainly have no problem in pointing out shortcomings!
Mr President, under the Treaties, Parliament has the right to be consulted on the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors.
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings on 22 and 23 November and adopted by secret ballot a favourable opinion on each of the candidates.
However I was disappointed, like Mrs Stauner, that we had very few members who were women.
Of the eight candidates put forward by the Council only one was a woman.
That will mean that as of next year, two of the Court's 15 members will be women, which is an improvement but still not enough.
I would therefore appeal to the Member States to put their own house in order.
I would also like to make some broader points about the composition of the Court of Auditors.
The system of appointing one member to the Court of Auditors from each Member State will have to be reformed with enlargement.
In the same way that the Commission and Parliament cannot be allowed to grow indefinitely, neither can the Court.
That will be considered at the IGC.
But in terms of the Court it is important to get away altogether from the system of appointments by nationality.
The role of the Court is to examine all Community revenue and expenditure to see whether it has been spent in a lawful and regular manner and whether financial management has been sound.
I see no reason why that role needs to be carried out by Member State appointees.
That system is simply not sustainable in such an institution.
Members of the Court should be appointed on the basis of their ability and specific skills, not on the basis of their nationality.
There is a danger that Member States' appointees may still feel some loyalty to their national capitals and may be seen as trying to water down criticisms of their own Member States.
What is needed is a court that is, and is seen to be, independent of Member States' interests.
Ultimately that should mean a system where we appoint proper, qualified auditors to the Court.
The events of the past year make it all the more important that we have a Court able to make criticisms where necessary, both of the Commission and of Member States, which, after all, are responsible for the management of about 85% of the funds.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control has passed all the candidates being discussed here.
And we do mean passed, not just automatically rubberstamped.
There have been candidates in the past that have been rejected by this House because there was some doubt as to their qualifications or impartiality.
Luckily, we have avoided such a turn of events this time even though, and I am betraying no secrets here, ex ante confidence has been placed in two of the candidates passed.
Allow me therefore to make a few basic comments on the Court of Auditors.
The Court of Auditors too is in need of urgent reform as the result of enlargement.
As Eluned Morgan has just said, the clearest way of going about this is on the basis of the number of members, as with the Commission.
At present, the Court has 15 members, traditionally one per Member State, even though the Treaty does not expressly prescribe this.
Fifteen members is five fewer than the Commission but, in the case of a relatively small institution such as the Court of Auditors, any further increase will make the Court much too top-heavy and unwieldy. That the Court is already unwieldy is clear from the overly prolonged procedure preceding the publication of its report.
This needs to be addressed at the forthcoming intergovernmental conference.
I should therefore like to argue for no further increase in the number of members of the Court of Auditors and, in this case at least, for the reverse, i.e. a reduction in the number of members, to be considered.
On the other hand, I take the view that the number of auditors available to the Court needs to be increased.
In other words, to coin a phrase, fewer chiefs, more Indians!
In addition, and this is the second point which I should like to raise here, we must consider if the Court should not be allocated new tasks in connection with budgetary discipline.
The crisis in the Commission now behind us demonstrated abundantly clearly that there is no effective mechanism for calling to account EU officials guilty of serious management errors or worse.
This is mainly because the disciplinary procedure is an internal matter at the Commission, with officials sitting in judgement on other officials.
So we cannot really blame those involved for taking a very, and unfortunately even excessively, lenient and forbearing an approach to cases from the outset.
The only way out of this is to outsource these procedures to an external authority.
What we need is a budgetary discipline division and such a division could well come under the Court of Auditors.
It has the necessary competence in financial matters and it has the necessary independence.
Mind you, this sort of reform would entail amending the Treaties.
However, without such reform, all the announcements being bandied about to the effect that stricter action will be taken next time will just be empty words.
Mr President, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Parliament' s responsibilities increased considerably, as it assumed new powers of codecision in the area of preventing and fighting the fraud which harms the Community' s financial interests.
The new Article 280 of the Treaty also gives the Court of Auditors new responsibilities by creating a legal body which will afford effective equivalent protection against fraud and any other illegal activity in the Member States.
Harmonisation in the area of the application of national criminal law and of the administration of justice in the Member States presupposes, necessarily, the harmonisation of legislation on fighting fraud and any other illegal activity in the Community budget.
This means that it also falls within the competence of the Court of Auditors to guarantee that the protection of the Community' s financial interests is done on the basis of a single corpus juris and is no longer done, as it has been until now on the basis of vague, disjointed and contradictory legislation, which deals with the various attacks on the Community' s financial interests according to the policy they relate to and not according to fair principles.
It is therefore time to end the narrow divisions between the Common Agricultural Policy, the Structural Funds, the Community' s own resources and the Community' s internal and external policies and to guarantee that there is one weight and one measure for all of these.
It is time to end the administrative and bureaucratic feuds and chapels and show that everyone has the same will to practice justice and rigour.
We think that this is the way to better control and manage the Community budget in an ever more efficient, balanced and impartial way.
Thank you very much, Mr Casaca.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
NIS and Mongolia: economic reform and recovery (TACIS)
The next item is the report (A5-0081/1999) by Mr Valdivielso de Cué on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the proposal for a Council regulation (Euratom, EC) [COM(1998) 753 - C4-0038/1999 - 1998/0368(CNS)] concerning the provision of assistance to economic reform and recovery in the New Independent States and Mongolia.
Mr President, the TACIS programme has dedicated its greatest efforts to supporting Mongolia, Russia and the other New Independent States in the carrying out of reforms and the political and administrative restructuring of their social and economic institutions in order to facilitate the construction of a democratic society which is based on a free market economy.
As we all know, this is an ambitious programme which will require a great economic effort on the part of the European Union, in the order of EUR 4,000 million in seven years.
Consequently, the text of the proposed regulation has taken a long time to draw up, and even then it has been judged to be unspecific and incomplete, since it does not include implementation procedures.
This has been a complex report and it has taken us time to reach an acceptable degree of consensus.
Furthermore, there is no need to stress that, on sending these funds to Russia and the New Independent States, we were not convinced that they would be administered properly.
In fact, we were rather worried about their administration and distribution.
Initially, it was the Committee on Budgets that requested greater control and rigour in the implementation of this aid programme.
Today, more than six months after those first exchanges of opinion, I think that we should be proud of the modifications made to the proposed regulation, mainly by this Committee, which increase the guarantees that these funds will be put to good use.
There was also a problem with the commitology of this programme within the old REX Committee, but, after the Council decision of 28 June 1999, to standardise the different Committees, this obstacle was overcome.
On the other hand, the discussion of the legal basis of this report has also been polemical, although in the end the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market approved it, finally defining it under Article 235, a decision which did not please many of us.
Another problem which has faced us is the fact that, until now, there have been no harmonised implementation procedures in the proposal for a regulation.
I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission representative when we will have harmonised procedures, which will guarantee more transparency, and efficiency, as the second report of the Independent Experts recommended.
Neither do I wish to end my speech without drawing attention to the unfortunate events in Chechnya and I therefore propose an oral amendment regarding the suspension of aid to Russia while this conflict continues.
I would like to make it clear that I do not intend to change the basis of Amendment No 39 of my report, but I do wish to adapt it to recent events, to which end we have reached agreement amongst the PSE representatives in our committee, thereby achieving greater coherence, consensus and technical quality.
The text of the amendment which we are proposing would be as follows: "In accordance with the European Parliament resolution of 18 November 1999, the conclusions of new contracts covering measures for the benefit of Russia to be funded in the context of the budget for the 2000 financial year shall be suspended, with the exception of the TACIS line for democracy, until a satisfactory solution has been found in Chechnya, in accordance with the European Union' s recommendations and on the basis of the procedure established in Article 13 of the present Regulation" .
Finally, I would like to ask the representative of the European Commission, with regard to this last point as well as to the report in general, if he is really going to take account of the recommendations made within the framework of this consultation, once they have been approved by this Parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
(DE) Thank you Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating Mr Valdivielso de Cué on his excellent and politically balanced report on the new TACIS regulation.
I should also like to thank the Commission for their excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report.
TACIS is an important political instrument of the European Community, not only in Russia but in all the republics of the former Soviet Union, with the exception of the Baltic States and Mongolia.
The philosophy that funds should be used more for the benefit of both sides has finally permeated through to TACIS. This means that we should shift from demand-driven payments by partner countries to the deployment of funds by both sides.
This deployment will, in my opinion, prove to be much more effective and we in Parliament should also make sure in future that the European side can influence the deployment of funds.
This will give the entire programme the flexibility which it has been lacking hitherto and help to prevent funds being misplaced.
In past years I and many of my colleagues who are active in Eastern Europe have noted that EU budget appropriations for TACIS are not always used as efficiently as they might be.
I do not want to dwell here on our tiresome experiences with hundreds of studies.
This has been due in part to limitations in the regulation itself and to problems in the management area.
The most significant shortcomings in this area have, in my view, been reduced in the new proposed regulation; more importantly, concentrating on two rather than 12 priorities per partner country as in the past will show a greater degree of professionalism and improve visibility.
New provisions on potential investments are geared to the development of either the embryonic or non-existent SME sector.
SMEs form the backbone of the economy in a modern economic system, which is why I have tabled the idea in a proposed amendment that we gear investments to the capacity of the partner country in question, rather than capping them at 25% of the total volume.
I also feel that visibility and hence the widespread impact of our programmes is a problem which we in the EU need to address in areas other than TACIS.
We could learn a lesson from the USA here.
The new TACIS regulation allows us, as did the first regulation, to use appropriations for humanitarian purposes in crisis situations.
That this flexibility is extremely important is demonstrated by the fact that, on the one hand, the EU wants to stop certain TACIS projects in Russia, as decided in Helsinki while, on the other hand, humanitarian aid is urgently needed.
Mr Valdivielso de Cué, I hope that I have misunderstood only as the result of misinterpretation; I consider it imperative that the TACIS Democracy Project should continue, especially in Russia, and that that we should choose the areas in which we really need to stop TACIS.
We did this in the case of Belarus and we should do the same in Russia.
Mr President, this speech is unexpected and comes as a result of non-attendance.
I did not have time to write it down, and so I will speak without a text, although it is a subject I know something about.
We are all wondering today what to expect of Russia after this crisis.
Wars always end, and I imagine this one will end when the Russian presidential elections are over, at the latest.
But, ladies and gentlemen, the question of whether Russia will cooperate with us in the future, and what form that cooperation will take, will depend on the skills we demonstrate today.
If we chose a policy of humiliation, the outcome may be a bad one, and dangerous too.
The TACIS programme is good in the sense that it is practical and gets close to the ordinary citizen.
I would like to make a few important points.
Firstly, it is important that Russia holds the elections in five days' time.
Secondly, we must continue with the sort of cooperation that aids the development in Russia of democracy and civil society.
That is important both for the Russians and for ourselves. Thirdly, in my opinion, aid should be allocated more precisely than at present - so that it reaches the ordinary people, the impoverished Russians, rather than Moscow.
Fourthly, we should establish a massive, long-range project within the framework of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to create smaller projects to cover a timeframe of 20 years.
By then - irrespective of who is leading Russia or the European Union - we will need Russian resources. The first of these is Russian gas, as Norwegian gas will run out.
In addition to gas, Russia has, for example, the world' s largest forest and mineral resources.
We must take the development of the infrastructure and the environment into consideration.
We should implement projects which look to the future in this area and which will carry us through this present crisis.
Mr President, I wish to make two relatively brief points.
Firstly, a request addressed to the Commission.
I spent some hapless years working as a junior official in the TACIS programme some years ago.
What I experienced, as I tried to interest everything from local transport authorities in Kishinev through to energy ministries in Uzbekistan was the following: just as in so many other EU policy areas, in TACIS projects we perhaps try to do too much across too many geographical boundaries in too many sectors.
I think we are all aware of this danger of the dispersal of EU assistance in far-flung places.
Could I make a plea that when this regulation comes into place the many loopholes which still remain in the regulation and which would allow a continued proliferation of small and excessively multiplied projects are closed and that a real, and perhaps in some cases ruthless, concentration of implementing projects is enforced.
On the second point I address the rapporteur. It concerns the political issue of the partial suspension of at least the TACIS programme under the budget year 2000.
I am glad to hear that the rapporteur has very much moved towards the amendment which the ELDR group tabled.
Many of us are instinctively still not convinced that any form of suspension is the right way to respond to present circumstances but nevertheless that seems to be the drift of debate.
In those circumstances, I would suggest that we at least make our words on the partial suspension of the TACIS programme under the budget year 2000 entirely compatible with what was decided in Helsinki, mainly and most particularly, that if we are going to save the democracy budget line we should also equally save the budget line which applies to nuclear safety projects.
I would like to thank my friend and the rapporteur, Mr Valdivielso de Cué, for the wonderful job he has made of mediating and reconciling the various yet justifiable interpretations of the validity of the new instrument for economic cooperation with the New Independent States and Mongolia.
It was a difficult job but the competence and tenacity of the rapporteur means that we can approve this measure.
The new financial programme for the development of the New Independent States and Mongolia that is replacing TACIS is bringing in mechanisms that are more precise than the previous ones.
Partnership and competition between the partner States in gaining funding encourage them to play an active role and they aim to enhance existing professionalism and therefore to create a ruling class which will be based on meritocracy.
The need to continuously monitor the implementation of the plans, as laid down in the document, protects the European Union from the blatant attempts at fraud noted in the past, and aims to put in place obvious and thus verifiable initiatives.
The choice to undertake visible interventions complies with the condition of emphasising the positive role of the European Union with regard to the wreckage left by communism ten years ago, and puts to the test the effectiveness of the western democratic method with regard to the failed dirigisme of the past.
It will be necessary, as anticipated, to carefully consider interventions in the civil, economic and social areas of the various New Independent States and Mongolia using two parameters: the solution of the issue of humanitarian intervention and social and economic marginalisation, without privileges and ranking, and the assessment of strategic civil, economic and social value with the aim of bringing the peoples of the new Independent States and Mongolia closer to the European Union.
Therefore, we need to proceed with the interventions in order to create a security framework between, on the one side, the new Independent States, and on the other, the European Union, so that we can establish ever greater peace and stability.
An essential demand that the European Union must make is that the new Independent States respect human rights, so that democratic principles and cultural, religious, political and ethnic pluralism will increasingly take root, in order to improve people' s quality of life.
The possibility of suspending the intervention in the unhappy event of a crisis occurring is certainly a strong deterrent which will lead the new States and Mongolia to seek a negotiated solution to disputes, thereby turning them into everyday political dialectics.
The European Parliament should debate and approve the new instrument that is replacing the TACIS programme, even if currently Russia, the largest of the new States, is the focus of a just European Parliament initiative that has suspended the technological cooperation agreement following the war begun against Chechnya.
But the Russia question is not solely about this: it is a large country experiencing an extremely serious political, economic and social crisis and it is preparing for presidential elections.
It is a large country undergoing a difficult transition and, in my opinion, it should not be left to its fate nor should it be isolated in punitive terms; instead, it should be helped and reassured by means of a close political and economic relationship, even if the political relationship is dialectic and the economic relationship is competitive.
Russia needs a lot of help from the European Union, based on caution, encouragement and when necessary, objections, but without the possibility of breaking off relations, which we actually need to intensify, in areas such as the creation of a new legal-administrative system which will do away with any temptation to behave improperly.
It is up to us to create the conditions for peace, cooperation, support, aid and partnership, and we must put the onus on the New Independent States, Mongolia, and above all, Russia, to make sure they deserve our help, by complying with the objective conditions of defending the fundamental principles of citizens and governed communities.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should first of all like to say to Mr Paasilinna that he perhaps ought always to speak without a script.
It would then be easier for the interpreters, because he talks at such high speed when he has a script.
I want to say that it is with great humility that I am taking part in this debate because I believe that there are few people who know what is right in this matter.
We may feel extremely brave when we are about to cut off aid.
At the same time, we must recognise, however, although we do not say it straight out as the Council does, that there are many in Russia who want us to stop providing the TACIS aid.
We are perhaps turning our backs on this section of the Russian population, upon those who might need us now, something which illustrates just how blunt a weapon sanctions are in general.
I therefore think it is extremely important that we adopt the compromise amendment which was indicated by Mr Clegg and which means that we can help with a development which begins from below and works its way upwards.
The need to help young people in the future is also emphasised in one of the amendments and, in the longer term, this is the only right thing to do.
We must teach young people who do not know what is meant by a market economy and who cannot in any case know anything about the matter because they do not have any books about it.
The opportunity must be there of learning.
We cannot go in there and just apply US economic models, but I am very clear on this point about helping young people and promoting a better future.
Mr President, because of the events in Chechnya, we have to push for a political decision, but that should not be, in my opinion, at the expense of the TACIS programme.
Putting it on ice or reducing it in some way will hit ordinary Russians and our most important partners in cooperation.
Russian cooperation has to be seen in the longer term.
Russia must not be isolated, nor must it be allowed to cut itself off either.
Through cooperation we must help social conditions to become established in Russia and democracy to gain strength. The flaws that became visible when the earlier programmes were being implemented have to be corrected.
Now projects have all too often been left half-finished.
There have been few practical results, and the greatest benefits have been reaped by western consultants and local middlemen.
A lack of coordination in the Interreg programmes has also meant poorer results.
We have to choose who we help, through these projects, more carefully and become more effective when implementing projects on a practical level.
Our local partners in cooperation must also be called on to commit to closer cooperation, and the commitments have to be kept on both sides.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Mrs Thors, a supplementary question, but please be brief.
I noted with regret that the Commissioner did not support Amendment No 7.
Yet we know that this is also a kind of obligation for the Union under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, that you should be able to report what you are doing in favour of children.
Secondly, I was also very concerned that you did not really propose much support for the NGOs, and this is exactly what many people working with democracy projects say, that they go to the budget line for democracy and human rights instead of being streamlined into other projects.
Madam, you have taken advantage of my generosity.
That was not a supplementary question. You tried to take the floor again.
May I say, that is not quite in order.
Commissioner, allow me to make a personal comment.
You referred to the House of Commons.
Permit me to say that experience in the House of Commons cannot always be transferred wholesale to the European Parliament.
My experience after 20 years' membership of this House has taught me that, in the long run, the popularity of a speaker at the end of an all-night sitting increases in inverse proportion to the length of his contribution to the debate.
That does not, of course, in any way restrict the Commission' s right under the Rules of Procedure to speak for as long as it likes!
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Technical regulations for wheeled vehicles
The next item is the recommendation (A5-0079/1999) by Mr Bodrato on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the proposal for a Council decision [10167/1999 - COM(1999) 27 - C5-0073/1999 - 1999/0011(AVC)] concerning the conclusion of the agreement concerning the establishing of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or used on wheeled vehicles ( "Parallel Agreement" ).
Mr President, this recommendation invites Parliament to express an opinion in keeping with the Council proposal on technical harmonisation in the automobile sector, by considering it to be an important factor in the development of the global market.
The process of harmonisation aims to attain the highest levels of safety and environmental protection and is an important stimulus for quality, with advantages both for industry and for consumers.
This recommendation originates from the agreement, concluded in 1958 within the framework of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
This agreement was then broadly amended, and it was extended to States outside the Union.
The European Community has thus become part of an amended agreement which now includes Japan.
Nevertheless, because of a different certification system, but also for procedural reasons, the United States could not adopt a similar decision.
A Parallel Agreement was negotiated to overcome this difficulty, which allows harmonised technical regulations to be adopted, but only unanimously and without the contracting parties being obliged to mutually recognise certificates and permits.
In this way, the European Community has taken on an important intermediate function, insofar as it is a contracting party of both of these agreements.
The rules laid down by the Parallel Agreement coincide with those in the UNECE agreement, but a specific decision-making procedure is anticipated when a draft regulation is not considered within the framework of the 1958 agreement.
In any case, in order to include technical regulations in Community legislation it is still necessary to have a corresponding Commission directive that is adopted by Parliament under the codecision procedure.
Parliament' s role is thereby guaranteed and it is anticipated that the Commission will provide Parliament with the draft regulations it wants to implement on a global scale.
I will conclude by pointing out that an opinion in keeping with this recommendation would put the European Community in a position to fully support the Parallel Agreement, and confirm its position as a leader in the harmonisation and policies of expanding the markets.
I would like to warmly welcome Mr Bodrato's report and the very clear presentation he gave.
This is an important step that matches the regulatory regime with the realities of a global car industry.
I just want to insert a word of caution.
Europe has to negotiate from a position of strength in this global regime.
In the United States the market is moving in the opposite direction from the rest of the world.
American consumers are in love with larger, heavier and more thirsty vehicles.
The European model of lighter, economical cars is becoming more and more significant in the rest of the world apart from the United States.
We have to make sure that global regulation does not compromise Europe's market strength in the type of vehicles that most world consumers want to buy.
I would like to take the opportunity to raise another issue about the global competitive environment in the car industry apart from regulation.
The reality of today's industry is that every operation - every factory - has to compete for long-term investment globally.
In Eastern Europe, in South America, in the United States, aids are being given to encourage local investment.
In that context, I particularly want to ask Mr Liikanen tonight to take up the question of the uncertainty facing thousands of my constituents who work at the BMW-Rover factory at Longbridge in Birmingham, where major investment is planned to produce new small cars for the global market.
I declare with pride a personal interest in this, because I began my career in the car industry 32 years ago working at that factory.
We heard last week that a decision from the Commission on an aid package from the British Government which responds to that need for the plant to be global has been delayed yet again, and that this delay is affecting consumer confidence and the future of the plant.
So in asking you, Mr Liikanen, if you can get that quickly resolved with your colleague Mr Monti, can I also ask the Commission to set up a fast and fair mechanism to deal with these future issues; because until we have that, Europe's global car industry's competitiveness will be affected and we will not be able to take full advantage of the regime that Mr Bodrato proposed.
Mr President, Commissioner, a few comments on the Parallel Agreement.
The assumption that we need to agree on common standards in the face of a globalised economy and globalised environmental protection requirements is correct.
However, and this is perhaps a requirement of this agreement, we need to start from a common political philosophy rather than taking an approach whereby management experts agree on standards beyond politics.
We held a symposium here two weeks ago with American members of Congress at which precisely this question was discussed, namely the development of a common philosophy for harmonising technical standards based on economic and ecological requirements.
As with music, harmony here does not necessarily mean that everyone is singing exactly the same note, but that the overall effect is harmonious.
And, in this respect, harmony also means taking account of the different requirements in the USA and in Europe.
And this has to happen at the political and not just the technical level.
The second requirement is this: we are concluding an agreement which is not in fact necessary because, in theory, everything can be regulated under the 1958 agreement.
An additional agreement is being concluded here merely to accommodate specific interests on the other side of the Atlantic, one which may lead, inter alia, to delays in the process of establishing common standards, for example, because unanimity is required here.
And that begs the question of whether we are paying too much attention to the requirements of a specific country
The third point concerns us very closely.
In discussions on accession to the 1958 agreement, we had intense discussions in the Kittelmann report on the extent to which Parliament' s joint political rights, to be specific, its right of codecision, was called into question.
This is, of course, exacerbated by this Parallel Agreement, because the mechanism is taken yet another step away from us, the European Parliament.
Commissioner, your predecessor, Mr Bangemann, assured us at the time that we would be regularly informed about discussions in relation to the 1958 agreement and included in decisions.
So far this process has yet to get off the ground.
I invite you to state clearly how Parliament can be involved in the decision-making process, what can be done to ensure that we are involved in time, what can be done to ensure that there is continuity in reporting, for example by having standing rapporteurs or by having small specialist groups, and how the Commission and Parliament can jointly set themselves the objective of monitoring the 1958 agreement.
In other words, how will the Commission ensure that Parliament' s right of codecision will not be circumvented by this agreement?
.
I am pleased to note that the European Parliament has proceeded speedily with the examination of the Community's accession to the parallel agreement and seems prepared to give its assent today.
This will contribute decisively to an enhanced competitiveness of our automotive industry on a global stage while ensuring higher safety and environmental requirements for the benefit of consumers.
In response to the question from Mr Harbour, I would say, as you know, that this concerns state aid schemes which belong to the competence of Mr Monti. I will inform him of the issues you took up here.
And to Mr Lange: as you know, every new piece of Community legislation to be adopted through the Geneva process must be approved by Parliament, either through assent under the 1958 Agreement or codecision, the Parallel agreement.
I am open to any discussion where you have interests to follow up.
I hope we will find a way to talk informally or in committee later on the proper formula.
Thank you, Commissioner.
One can see that you have been acquainted with this House for quite some time.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
(The sitting was closed at 11.35 p.m.)
Statement by the President
I would like to notify you that this morning a suspect package was found near the Louise Weiss Building and that the French police, in collaboration with our security services, denied access to the building and carried out a test which, fortunately, proved to be negative.
Those of us who were in the building before 8 o'clock were very much aware that there was a suspect package in the courtyard of the Louise Weiss Building which was the cause of a bomb scare.
Quite rightly, access to certain parts of the building was denied and Members and staff were evacuated from one part to another.
I do not know whether this was a fiendish attempt by my Italian friend Mr Dell'Alba to move us from Strasbourg, whether it was my UK Conservative colleagues who had mistaken the day of President Chirac's visit, or whether it was a Christmas gift of Belgian chocolates now sticking to the walls of the courtyard.
But, whatever the case, there was a lot of confusion and an evident lack of knowledge of the procedures for the evacuation of this building.
I should like to ask whether a note could be circulated to Members and staff outlining normal evacuation procedures and whether, in the case of an event like this, the screens which are dotted all around the building could be used to give Members information on what is going on.
Mr Watson, I think that your request is not only justifiable but sacrosanct and we must ask our services to organise a drill as soon as possible, as soon as we are all here for a plenary sitting.
Hopefully, we need only wait two or three months for the temperature and weather to allow us to carry out this drill in the best possible way.
I would also like to inform you that what was found was not an item belonging to Mr Dell' Alba or his friends, but is definitely a piece of equipment belonging to a photographer.
This was revealed after it was found. However, when it was first discovered, there was some uncertainty and therefore they had to take this unusual step.
Mr President, I just wanted to point out that the security arrangements for the visit by the French President this week were exemplary and that we were all extremely satisfied with the order and security surrounding the visit.
However, I would like to say that security at the European Parliament has long been a matter of discussion and that it would perhaps be advisable to set up a working party in which Members are also informed as to what security arrangements have been put in place for them in the European Parliament.
Mr Rübig, I think that your request should be carefully considered by our Quaestors so that they can propose measures to the President' s Office and to the Conference of Presidents, if necessary.
Mr President, you are quite right.
The College of Quaestors is due to meet this afternoon and a note on the procedures for evacuating the building will be sent to all Members before the next part-session.
Thank you, Mr Poos.
Your remark has given an indirect reply to Mr Watson and Mr Rübig.
Welcome
Mr President, I have asked to speak because you have already turned your attention to the agenda.
I thought that you would make an announcement about the members of the convention working on the Charter of Citizens' Rights.
I had asked for the names of the Members of Parliament appointed by the Conference of Presidents to be officially announced to Parliament.
I was assured that the President in the chair this morning would make this announcement and that the names of the Members of the European Parliament who are members and deputy members of the convention would be included in today' s minutes.
I am therefore somewhat taken aback to learn that you have not received this list of names so that you could announce them to the House.
An official public announcement of the Members of the European Parliament appointed to the convention must be made because the convention will officially start work on Friday.
Please ensure that an official announcement is made.
Mr Poettering, I will be able to read you the communication as soon as I receive it.
You have been informed before me; however, as soon as I have the communication, I will, of course, make you and all the Members in the House aware of it.
Climate change
The next item is the statements of the Council and the Commission on the results of the fifth Conference of the members of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I invite Minister Hassi, representative of the Council, to take the floor.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, a policy on climate issues has been one of the main environmental concerns of the Finnish Presidency.
I think it is important to bear in mind that a policy on climate issues will, I imagine, be one of the greatest challenges for the entire planet and all mankind in the next century.
The European Parliament is quite right when it states in its resolution that the commitments that have been made up till now are still not sufficient to limit the rise in temperature to one and a half degrees a century: we need new commitments in addition to the present ones.
Nonetheless, it will be a hard job to realise the present commitments.
Preparing for the COP 5 Conference in Bonn was an important issue for Finland.
Generally speaking, the Union has also been satisfied with the results of COP 5.
Progress was made in a good number of areas.
In addition, an action programme was agreed on, which I believe will enable us to make the necessary decisions at the sixth conference (COP 6) of the parties to the agreement on climate, which is to be held next autumn in the Hague, to make the process of ratification of the Kyoto Protocol possible.
At Community level, Finland has worked to integrate climate policy with other areas of policy by drafting, for example, environmental strategies in the areas of energy, transport and agriculture.
We must remember that these strategies are only the first step in what will hopefully become an on-going process of implementing and developing climate strategies.
One of the most important decisions reached during the autumn was the commitment made at the Helsinki Summit by the Community and the Member States to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before the Rio+10 Conference, which is to be held in 2002, and that the Community should do everything required to make ratification possible.
Finland has also been involved in a wide-ranging dialogue with NGOs and representatives of business.
In our opinion, multilateral commitment to a policy on climate will, in the long term, guarantee optimum results.
Although I said that the decisions that have already been taken will enable us to achieve the results we need at the sixth conference of the parties to the agreement on climate to be held next autumn, there is still much work to be done.
It is particularly important for the Union to build bridges with developing countries and try and find solutions that they also regard as fair: win-win solutions in which both development and the environment are winners.
Important issues for developing countries include how to create facilities to make it possible for them to report on levels of emissions, the development of their facilities in general and technology transfer.
In this we have to pay special attention to the poorest countries of all.
We still have much work to do, furthermore, to develop the rules of the Kyoto mechanisms.
Important questions include how natural depressions and hollows relate to the Kyoto mechanisms and the so-called flexible ceiling, which the European Union has proposed.
Next year, the EU must do all it can to find solutions that are as effective as possible for the environment and the reduction in emissions and which can be widely adopted so that an agreement on the rules for the Kyoto mechanisms and the rules on compliance with that agreement can be reached.
I consider one fundamental issue to be the fact that nuclear power cannot be accepted as a method to be applied in the CDM and Joint Implementation projects.
The Ministers for the Environment that convened at COP 5 had very strong opinions on this, but it is obviously going to be an especially challenging task to arrest the trend in the Community' s own greenhouse gas emissions, which is rising at present, when it ought to be falling.
We still need new measures throughout the Community and the Member States. For example, bringing in an environment tax would be a major achievement.
The suggestions of the Council for an action programme and the proposal under consideration to develop a system for emissions trading within the Community are steps in the right direction.
Thank you, Mrs Hassi.
I now invite Mrs Wallström, a member of the Commission, to take the floor.
Thank you for inviting me to give the Commission's assessment of the results of the Bonn Conference on Climate Change.
One year ago the parties to the Convention on Climate Change decided on a two-year work programme, the Buenos Aires plan of action.
It should lead to decisions on the outstanding issues under the Kyoto Protocol by COP 6, which will take place one year from now in The Hague.
In this context the expectations for Bonn concentrated on the need to make substantial technical progress.
It was clear from the outset that the major political decisions would have to wait for COP 6.
I believe such progress has been achieved.
The aspect of COP 5 of greatest political importance was Chancellor Schroeder's call for entry into force of the Protocol by the year 2002.
I am very pleased that the European Union, along with many other parties, expressed its support for that idea.
This means that a clear timetable is now set which increases the pressure on all parties to make COP 6 a success.
I urge all parties to ensure that they are able to launch the ratification process immediately after COP 6.
In this context, the decision of the parties in Bonn to speed up the process during the coming years was important.
Allow me to comment on some of the issues that were discussed in Bonn.
The most important unresolved issues under the Kyoto Protocol are the rules and modalities for the Kyoto mechanisms and the design of a comprehensive compliant system.
The Kyoto mechanisms - emissions trading, joint implementation and the clean development mechanism - are a part of the Protocol.
It is generally recognised that they have the potential to make climate action more cost efficient.
Of course, it is vital that such a system is complemented by a strictly compliant system including provisions for cases of non-compliance.
In view of the difficult international negotiation process, it was quite a success that, on the Kyoto mechanisms and on compliance, we succeeded in getting de facto draft negotiating texts.
These will continue to constitute the basis for further negotiation in the coming months.
Without this achievement, the prospects of reaching decisions at COP 6 would have been bleak.
Good progress has also been made on issues such as capacity building, technology transfer and adaptation to the effects of climate change.
The meeting highlighted once again how important it is to make equal progress on issues of importance to the industrialised world as much as to the developing countries.
That is why we need a balanced process between issues relating to the Kyoto Protocol and issues relating to the underlying Climate Change Convention.
We have to keep in mind that COP 6 can be successful only if we can deliver significant results on both issues, building a bridge between the industrialised and developing countries.
Another success was the continuation of the so-called activities implemented jointly.
These projects financed by industrial countries cannot but enhance capacity building and technology transfer in developing countries and economies in transition.
This brings me to a very important matter that Parliament has also raised in a resolution, namely the question of nuclear energy as an option for clean development mechanism projects.
I am of the opinion that the environmental and safety problems surrounding nuclear energy are too important to encourage its proliferation in developing countries under the header of the clean development mechanism.
There are excellent alternatives such as renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures that fit much better with the purpose of the CDM to promote sustainable development.
Let me turn to some of the other divergence issues.
The EU proposal for a concrete ceiling on the use of the Kyoto mechanisms has not been addressed formally at COP 5 but was very much the subject of discussion in the corridors.
The intentions underlying the proposals stand as firm as ever, guaranteeing that every party achieves at least a substantial part of its emissions target at home instead of relying heavily on the Kyoto mechanisms.
This should allow the first behavioural and technological changes with a view to preparing for the much more ambitious emission cuts of the future.
In addition, the Kyoto targets must be achieved through real emission reductions and not by buying other countries' quotas that have become over-generous due to economic decline - the famous hot air.
Hence the need to limit the amount of its quota of emissions that a party can sell.
A decision on how to ensure this environmental soundness must be taken at COP 6 as part of the overall package of decisions and the Community's position on the ceilings issue has not changed.
Another important feature at COP 5 concerned the voluntary commitments of developing countries and it is commendable that developing countries such as Argentina and Kazakhstan are taking the initiative to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions.
In view of their economic growth prospects their involvement in international climate change action is of the utmost importance.
However, it is crucial that we get the process right.
We must avoid inflation of the environmental permits available in the Kyoto mechanisms as this would work against real emission reductions.
I hope to come back to you in a year or so to report positive results from COP 6.
In the meantime the Commission will continue not only its active role in the negotiations but also its work on Community measures.
Under the climate change action programme, which I announced in this House in October, the Commission's work is currently focusing on the establishment of a list of priority measures in the area of climate change to be presented to the Environment Council in March.
I am also working hard to have a Green Paper on emissions trading within the European Community adopted by the Commission in March.
It will allow a wide debate of all stakeholders on an approach which should further reduce the costs to our economies of reducing greenhouse gases.
A tremendous amount of technical and political work still lies ahead of us in putting the Kyoto Protocol into effect as a first step in fighting global warming.
I appreciate your commitment to help in conveying the importance of combating climate change throughout Europe and to your counterparts in other countries, in particular the United States Congress.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, at the end of this century, the subject of environmental protection is being accorded the importance which it actually deserves, given the major challenges at stake.
It is true that we have made progress in numerous areas and that some environmental problems, such as water pollution, have been sorted out.
But the greatest environmental problem facing our planet in the next century has not been sorted out; on the contrary, it is increasing day by day.
Man is currently producing twice as many greenhouse gases, detrimental as they are to the climate, as the world can cope with in the long term.
The countries of the European Union account for a large proportion.
If we do not act now, the next century will be dominated by dramatic problems.
We are not talking solely of rising sea levels and the disappearance of small island States and the flooding of low-lying areas in Bangladesh or the Netherlands, which we are all aware of.
We are also talking about the spread of deserts and an increase in tropical whirlwinds, the devastating effects of which have been clearly felt in recent years.
This will all lead to an increase in the waves of refugees.
We already have more environmental refugees than war refugees, which is why this is also of paramount importance here in Europe.
The catastrophic floods in France and elsewhere have also shown that problems arise if we fail to act quickly.
Some experts are even warning of an increase in tropical diseases such as malaria in our temperate zones.
Every serious scientist is saying that we need to reduce emissions by 50% in the long term.
That means that we in the industrialised countries and in the European Union need to reduce them by far more than 50% in order to take account of legitimate development interests in developing countries and population growth.
I therefore consider that the Kyoto Protocol is just the first step in the right direction and it must not, under any circumstances, be undermined by loopholes.
We in the European Parliament support the stand taken by the Council and the Commission that emissions must be reduced mainly in the industrialised countries close to home.
The flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol are merely additional mechanisms. That applies above all to the so-called clean development mechanism.
Of course, it is a good thing if industrialised countries or undertakings in industrialised countries invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy in developing countries, but that cannot replace commitments at home.
Per capita emissions in industrialised countries, including the Member States of the European Union, are several times higher than the levels which the earth can cope with in the long term.
The Council and the Commission played a constructive role at the Bonn Conference.
We particularly welcome the commitment to ratify Kyoto by 2002.
The Bonn Conference was not a failure, even if the dramatic situation in fact calls for greater progress.
In particular, I was pleasantly surprised in Bonn by the constructive attitude being taken by the business world.
Many sectors of the business world recognise that the undertaking to protect the climate also offers businesses the opportunity to earn money and create jobs.
However, much still needs to be done before the all-decisive conference in the Hague.
It is particularly important for the European Commission to be credible.
We can only be credible if we too do our homework.
Some countries have indeed reduced emissions to some extent, but there are no true paragons.
I find it particularly worrying that emissions are currently rising sharply in what are in fact environmentally-friendly countries such as Denmark and Sweden.
In Sweden, this is perhaps mainly due to diversification out of nuclear power.
I feel that we should address this quite openly.
I do not take the view that nuclear power is a universal panacea but, more importantly, we do not want nuclear energy technology to be exported to unsafe countries in lieu of commitments at home.
The diversification out of nuclear power currently being planned or implemented in some countries in Europe exacerbates the problem.
We must not overlook the fact that rising CO2 emissions are hardly likely to increase our credibility.
Mr President, Representative of the Council Hassi and Commissioner, I believe that most of us were very pleased indeed when, as early as at the hearings of the Commissioners, we learned that one of Commissioner Wallström' s priority areas was work to combat climate change.
I believe that this is an environmental issue of a kind to which the majority of citizens and the broad general public can also feel committed because people do in fact feel real anxiety faced with the climate changes that are under way.
All the environmental disasters that we have witnessed make us reflect more often upon the world we are living in, and also upon our own influence on it.
The problem is scarcely one of people' s not being aware of climate change. What is in fact missing, however, is the concrete implementation of measures to combat this.
We are constantly knocked off course whenever we try to move on in our discussions. Many are the conferences in which the world' s leaders have convened in order to find a common strategy, but so far relatively few concrete measures have been taken.
This is not perhaps so odd after all, because climate change is not, of course, the only issue in the world which needs to be solved.
Famine, poverty and injustice in the way in which burdens are distributed remain acute problems in many parts of the world.
In other parts - the richer part of the world, our own part of it - we ourselves find it hard to give up our well-being in order to get to grips with the problems.
These become ever more complex, and decisions are conspicuous by their absence.
Just as Mr Liese said, we were not perhaps expecting too much progress at the latest COP Conference in Bonn, but it would still of course have been desirable for the EU, the United States and everyone else to have achieved a more constructive result than was actually achieved.
This is also why we are tabling this resolution, by means of which we want to speed up developments.
We are convinced that more must happen more quickly, both in the individual Member States of the European Union, but also of course worldwide.
In the future, we also want to be an instigative force within the Union in order to ensure that more in fact happens.
We therefore support the wish expressed by the European Union to the effect that the Protocol should come into force by the year 2002.
We also consider that, even if the decision to ratify the Protocol is a long time coming in certain countries, this should not prevent us from seriously considering the possibility of ratifying the Protocol alongside those who have made up their minds anyway.
We may possibly be in danger of leaving behind someone who does not dare to take up a definite position, but we must nevertheless try to go forwards.
In this regard, I should like, nonetheless, to ask Mrs Wallström and Mrs Hassi, who are present in the Chamber, for their opinions regarding our Amendment No 2 in which we demand that we should ratify the Protocol at the latest during COP 6. What will this entail?
Will it entail the EU as a Union ratifying the Protocol? Or does it mean that we believe that every individual Member State will also ratify it by this date?
I am pleased that Commissioner Wallström and Representative of the Council Hassi emphasised that nuclear power is not a sustainable energy source.
Mr President, Mrs Hassi, Commissioner, the issue under discussion concerns the outcome of the fifth conference on the Kyoto Protocol in Bonn.
As clearly stated in our motion for a resolution, the results of the Kyoto Protocol are unsatisfactory on several accounts.
Climate change is continuing, for which reason further strict measures for reducing greenhouse gases must be taken by 2010.
It is already seven years since the Earth Summit in Rio where firm commitments were made without any really positive consequences having resulted to date. Regrettably, there is still a major element missing from this motion.
This is the people. We should not forget that, regardless of the measures which may be taken by individual Member States or the European Union as a whole, it is the people as consumers who, through their habits and behaviour, will promote change and impose this on decision makers.
There is therefore a real urgency for wide-ranging measures to now be adopted in order to involve the people in decision making on this subject. In this way, they will feel more responsible for the climate change phenomenon.
This could be achieved, for example, through wider information campaigns bringing pressure to bear on people' s behaviour. Our resolution on the Kyoto Protocol, adopted in October, was clearly heading in this direction by demanding a coordinated strategy for informing the public in a clear, understandable and accessible manner.
I am thinking, for example, of certain aerosols which we use extensively in our daily life.
It is through these concrete and tangible measures that Europe will enter our homes and our habits.
Finally, I must comment on the subject of a CO2/energy tax which the motion mentions in paragraph 14.
Although I am not against the principle of taxing polluting emissions, I do believe that these measures must respect two principles. On the one hand they must try to guarantee tax neutrality and, on the other, they must cover the whole of the industrialised world, or at least the OECD, so that ecological dumping or competition distortions do not arise.
Climate change is not inevitable, yet it is only by involving the main actors - people and industry - and by making them responsible that we will overcome the obstacles.
Mr President, climate change is one of the most important environmental issues but also one of the most difficult ones to solve.
It impacts greatly upon economic processes.
The breakdown of the WTO round in Seattle has taught us that the EU should be convincing in its endeavours to achieve global environmental policy.
We need to set a good example ourselves.
So far, Europe has made fancy declarations but greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union will be in excess of 8 percent instead of under 8 percent if no additional measures are taken.
This is mainly due to the fact that the transport sector has got out of hand: more cars, more trucks and more aircraft clocking up more miles.
This is why I urge the European Commission, in the next plan of action for combating climate change, to address the most difficult issue, namely traffic.
For example, zero emissions for traffic and a ten percent reduction for households, industry and energy production itself.
EU measures to restrict CO2 emissions by trucks are necessary, as is the promotion of economical cars, such as hybrid and electrical cars, or at last a European energy/CO2 tax imposed by those 12 or 13 countries which want to impose a hefty levy.
Only if the European Union manages to reduce greenhouse gases can we be credible.
Then we will be able to reach a breakthrough at the sixth conference of the Groups in The Hague.
The most difficult tangles in the trade in emission rights and clean development mechanisms can then be cut through.
Needless to say, for the Green group, nuclear energy does not even enter into the picture as far as reaching a solution is concerned.
In Europe, but also worldwide, we need to focus on renewable energy, such as wind energy, solar energy and biomass.
In the case of a windmill, the cost of making and erecting one is covered after only four to six months.
Compare this with nuclear energy where it takes as much as ten years before nett energy finally exceeds the cost of building a plant.
Mr President, I believe that both the Commissioner and the representative of the Council are perfectly aware of the threats hanging over the planet because year after year this Parliament has warned them of these threats.
The increase in temperature by two degrees - as other Members have said - which is expected between now and 2010, if no measures are taken, the rise in sea levels, the disappearance of small islands and many of the catastrophes of the last two years which, according to the experts, are related to climate change, are facts which should oblige us to adopt immediate and concrete measures.
The resolution adopted by the Committee on the Environment moves in this direction, as do the amendments which were presented and approved unanimously.
Amongst these - and we are happy that Commissioner Wallström has pointed this out - is the clear criticism of the pressure exerted by the nuclear industry on Bonn so that nuclear energy may be used in the strategy to reduce CO2 emissions.
It seems to us that industry brings with it risks, as the Commissioner has said, in terms of safety and the subsequent use or recycling of waste. These risks are unacceptable to us.
For this reason, in the Committee on the Environment, we still propose renewable sources of energy and the adoption of clear measures with regard to transport; not only in road transport which is the form of transport which produces most CO2 emissions, but also in air transport which also produces many emissions and which, until now, has not been controlled as it should be.
We also agree with the Council that we should build bridges with developing countries, but building bridges with these countries means two things: not trying to do deals with them with regard to the buying and selling of quotas and not cutting development and aid funds so that they can adopt measures which will lead in the direction which we are proposing.
In one of the amendments we also propose that countries draw up clear and concrete plans for reductions in the different sectors - transport, agriculture, etc. because if no plans or concrete measures exist, then we will still be here talking about the same things far beyond 2000.
Mr President, at a time when globalisation is filling us with uncertainty and everything is in the short term and disposable, it is very difficult to have an overview of the future.
The new millennium is a great marketing product which seems to be concentrated on one night of partying without opening our minds to grand projects and ideas.
Is climate change the major challenge of the next century or a good New Year' s resolution without any significant value?
It is difficult for us politicians to sell to our electors political decisions which are planned over ten or twenty years.
Yet have we not agreed to take responsibility?
The debate on climate change is not a trivial affair.
It is our industrialised countries which created this world and we must therefore lead by example.
Can Trade, with a capital T, be more reasonable?
Can the countries of the world reconcile economic development with health without seeming naïve or demonstrating worthless good sense?
We in the European bubble must not forget developing countries. We must achieve a balanced partnership between all the countries of the world and between all economic actors.
The applicant States must be involved given that they have to conform to European environmental standards.
The question of climate change and the resultant apocalyptic visions are a forceful and global way of drawing attention to the dangers of pollution.
The melting of the polar ice-caps and tropical storms are deemed to be the result of greenhouse gases which, in the main, are directly produced by our factories.
We therefore should have increased people' s awareness.
Floods and storms have been promised for those who are currently sat comfortably in front of their televisions and who believe themselves to be protected by economic development and temperate climates.
Climate change and the reawakened anger of nature are frightening concepts to countries which are now declaring that this situation cannot continue.
In order to stabilise the climate and reassure the world' s inhabitants, without overusing the concept of environmental protection which should be left to the ecologists, the issues of the Kyoto Protocol - mad cow disease, dioxins and the debate on GMOs - are being paraded.
Climatic disasters and food scares are of the same ilk and make societies distrustful faced with uncertainty and events they cannot control.
Business and governments now know that the only way forward is to include the environment and the principle of sustainable development.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mr Hassi and Commissioner Wallström for their declaration.
I share their opinion that the problem of climate change requires a global solution.
It is therefore regrettable that so few countries have ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
In the resolution, the criticism is expressed that the United States is so unwilling.
It is more important to assess our own behaviour.
The EU Member States have not yet ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
If countries at a climate conference reach an agreement, then it is understood that every effort is made to reach sound implementation and execution.
The fact that this environmental problem needs to be solved worldwide does not detract from the huge responsibility incumbent upon each individual Member State.
I fully agree with the focus of the resolution being put on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
The measures involved have a beneficial effect on the environment.
However, there are also CO2 reducing measures which, besides said beneficial effects, also cause negative environmental effects.
In other words, a reduction in CO2 emissions can never be a licence to emit other harmful substances instead.
Therefore, the EU' s energy policy must specifically embrace all environmental effects caused by a specific type of energy production.
Then environmental policy will actually be integrated into the energy policy, as laid down in the Treaty.
The environment needs to be integrated into the transport policy too.
The transport sector accounts for no less than 40% of total CO2 emissions.
It is evident that journeys and flights should be reduced.
The introduction of excise on kerosene remains a necessary measure, so that flight traffic is no longer given undue preferential treatment in financial terms over other types of transport.
Responsibility very much applies to the elected Members of Parliaments.
Yesterday, the new building of the European Parliament was opened.
I, like many others, cannot explain to the electorate that monthly journeys between Brussels and Strasbourg are necessary.
This is, unfortunately, a reality for the time being, but the climate in the European Council will hopefully change.
Mr President, everyone in this House agrees that reducing or at least stabilising CO2 emissions is an environmental imperative for our planet.
In 1992, at the Rio Convention, and then in 1997 at the Kyoto Conference, the European Union led the way.
We must now continue to propose a bold and ambitious policy on this subject, and the EU must also remain capable of convincing its partners, which means convincing its own Member States first.
For although Europe is talking about this issue, are the fifteen Member States ready to make the necessary efforts and to respect and implement the numerous directives approved here in this House?
We must therefore raise awareness among the Member States and among our partners.
It has already been mentioned that the United States of America is still reticent about this kind of policy and ambition.
The European Union must therefore be resolute in the face of the US Congress and Japan and it must also be able to convince countries such as Russia.
You can appreciate the enormous task facing us in this respect, a task also facing us in our discussions on enlarging the EU and our need to convince the applicant States that our environmental ambitions must be heeded.
Finally, the people must be made aware for it is through them that progress will be achieved.
I do not really favour energy taxes as I do not believe that environmental problems can be systematically solved with taxation.
The EU therefore has a real duty to raise awareness and provide information so that behaviour in the EU can change.
This is our ambition for the Europe of tomorrow.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, you have made a very positive appraisal of the Bonn Conference which, from your point of view, I can understand.
In all honesty, however, although there has been progress in secondary theatres of war, as it were, for example how negotiations should be conducted, what working parties should be set up, no progress has been made on the main issue, i.e. what should be done about emission rights and emissions trading.
That is a pity because, as far as I can see, that is the main issue, especially in view of the fact that one large country, one contracting partner, is saying we want to be able to buy ourselves out of all our emissions obligations.
That this country is able to use internal political debate, i.e. the imminent election campaign in the USA, to block us and the other contracting States from making further progress on this central issue is scandalous!
As far as I can see, the decisive question is this: how can we inject new momentum into this process and encourage greater involvement on the part of this large contracting State on the other side of the Atlantic?
How can we achieve progress in coming years and involve the United States in this?
As far as I am concerned, there can be no question of allowing countries to buy their way out of all their emission obligations, because what that means, in essence, is that we and the USA are able to absolve ourselves from our own obligations at the expense of less developed countries.
We overcame imperialism in the 19th century; surely we are not going to pave the way for imperialism in the 21st century!
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, thank you for your perceptive comments on global warming.
However, like my fellow Member, I do not totally agree with what you said about progress in the fight against this phenomenon.
We keep having conferences on global warming and they all turn out much the same. We should ask ourselves how many more so-called natural disasters it will take before the harmful effects of global warming, and their consequences, particularly on the economic and social development of European and world society, are really taken into account.
You do not need to be a scientist to realise that global warming is a fact.
The floods which are causing increasing amounts of damage are enough of a signal to be taken seriously.
The insurance companies, which obviously are directly and financially involved, have sounded the alarm about these natural disasters which seem to be beating all records this year.
We should regard these indisputable signals as stop signs for they remind us daily of the urgent need to act and to adopt specific measures to combat global warming.
Yet it is astonishing how little attention is paid to all these conferences.
Apart from a few environmentalists who are deeply concerned about global warming, total indifference is the norm.
Even worse, under pressure from powerful nuclear lobbies, nuclear energy has nearly succeeded in being recognised as a renewable source of energy. This would be a disaster in itself.
To conclude, I believe we really are a long way off success in the fight against global warming.
This is why we have to set an example in this House, particularly as we appeared to be in the vanguard at Rio.
I would like to reply to Mr Poettering who made a request at the beginning of the sitting: the European Councils of Cologne and Tampere established a body responsible for drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This body is made up of representatives of the European Parliament, of Heads of State and Government, of national parliaments and of the European Commission.
Mr President, one of the greatest challenges in the fight for sustainable development is to reduce the all too high levels of CO2 emissions and, to begin with, I should like to emphasise that nuclear power is not a renewable energy source and that it ought not therefore to be included among Kyoto' s flexible mechanisms, such as the mechanism for sustainable development.
The use of nuclear power must not stand in the way of the transition to a more sustainable energy supply.
In order to honour its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU must, however, be involved in promoting renewable energy and seeking environmentally correct solutions so that the present level of CO2 emissions is reduced.
In this connection, I should like to refer to an investigation carried out by the Federation of European Contractors which shows that total European CO2 emissions can be reduced by a whole 12% by means of improving energy efficiency in buildings.
By insulating buildings, it will be possible, in addition to improving energy efficiency, to also create up to 300 000 permanent jobs in the EU over a 10-year period.
Both the Council and the Commission have previously acknowledged that some of the biggest potential for saving energy is to be found in the building sector.
I am therefore surprised that no-one has since mentioned this fact in the concrete proposals tabled with a view to fulfilling the Kyoto obligations, and I should like to ask the Commission whether this consideration has been quite specifically included among the matters to be deliberated by the Commission.
I can see that the Commission is not paying attention but I hope, all the same, that the question was heard.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Kyoto is clearly one of the major challenges for the 21st century, yet the way that we resolve the issue of climate change may greatly affect future civilisation.
Parliament must therefore repeat its formal reservations about the right to pollute system, otherwise known as the flexibility mechanism. If we really want to solve the enormous problem of the greenhouse effect, we cannot operate a system in which everything can be bought and sold, including the right to pollute.
This is not true to our values and it will create profound inequalities.
We could take as an example the situation in the former Soviet Union, in what is now Russia.
This country is in decline and its development is threatened. There is therefore enormous potential for it to trade its rights to pollute.
So the Americans, taking advantage of their status as a rich country, and despite having imposed this mechanism on us, supposedly to ensure the application of the Kyoto decisions, are not only not applying these decisions themselves but are also manoeuvring to trade these infamous rights to pollute with Russia.
The richest countries can therefore pay to keep the rest under-developed so that they themselves do not have to make the efforts which they could.
This is unacceptable and Europe must say so.
Regardless of the Americans, Europe must say that it will ratify the Kyoto Protocol without getting involved in the right to pollute system.
The Commission must talk to Russia to ensure that it does not engage in these talks with the Americans and so that we can find other ways forward together.
Finally, Europe must act within its Member States and at Community level.
I would suggest that Europe and the Commission pursue two initiatives.
The first concerns the excellent work initiated by Jacques Delors on piggyback transport and the major non-polluting transport infrastructures to replace the lorry and the car. This work must finally be taken forward with financing from the European Union.
The second, in the car sector, involves establishing a renewal strategy for old cars, in addition to the standards which we have adopted, given that these cars produce considerably more pollution than newer vehicles.
Mr President, unfortunately, the international solution to the problem of how the greenhouse effect is to be handled is a long time in coming. I think it is very disheartening indeed that, after Kyoto, there is only one country, a small island in the South Pacific, which has ratified the Kyoto agreement.
Now, it is also a reality, and not only in statistics and in the world of conference venues, that emissions must be reduced and the greenhouse effect mitigated.
Just as the resolution says, I believe that now is the time for the EU to really show the way and to dare to move forwards, to leave the reluctant and sluggish United States behind it and, together with others, to try to ratify the Kyoto agreement.
I think it is time for the EU to take the initiative and do this.
I hope that the present resolution, which I think is very good indeed, will be of use in this work in preparation for the COP 6 Conference.
I should also like to thank Commissioner Wallström and Representative of the Council Hassi for what they said, because I thought this was extremely hopeful.
If it were they who were to have their way, I think things would get much better, for we are in fact playing roulette with our future; and the future has already shown itself to have arrived, what with all the disasters that have occurred in recent years.
I believe that we must use political will in order to reduce emissions and utilise the renewable energy sources which do, in fact, exist.
It is not a case of our having to wait for these resources to appear, rather, they already exist.
It is just a question of using political will and ensuring that they are cost-effective and competitive.
Mr President, it is of course interesting to listen to Commissioner Wallström and Representative of the Council Hassi.
You express a certain optimism when it comes to the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol, which I appreciate that one has to do in your position.
I personally am not so optimistic.
Greenhouse gases continue to increase throughout the world more than seven years after the Climate Convention was signed.
I have been participating in a worldwide energy analysis which is just now being carried out. This shows - and, unfortunately, this has perhaps to be emphasised - that there will be plenty of fossil fuels for the foreseeable future.
Even if demand increases in the future, we shall be more or less swimming in oil and gas, and it will be cheap oil and gas.
It is therefore absolutely necessary to take political measures.
The market cannot put the environmental consequences in question into the equation.
We must levy taxes and charges, and we must devise norms and standards if we want the alternatives which exist in the energy sphere to have a chance.
The United States' s passive attitude thus far has already been mentioned. I have come to the conclusion that the European Union must very much take a leading role in this work.
The resolution states a number of steps which could lead to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol if Europe were to take the lead: a reduction of emissions here at home; concrete plans to reduce emissions in the most important sectors, above all within the transport sector where emissions are increasing most quickly; the introduction of economic instruments of control; early ratification of the Kyoto Protocol; and intensified dialogue, both with Japan and with the developing countries.
I realise, like earlier speakers, that we must involve America in this, but we cannot wait for their leadership.
My question both to Commissioner Wallström and Representative of the Council Hassi is this: you have expressed a general optimism; now where is the conclusion?
My other question to Commissioner Wallström is this: are you prepared to give pro-active leadership a chance and, if so, how will it be possible for this to develop in the current political climate?
Mr President, in common with other speakers, I should like to begin by emphasising the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and to reduce the effect upon the climate.
The present resolution is a good one but, following the discussion by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, two flaws have become apparent.
Firstly, there is a reference to nuclear power which is not directly connected to the resolution' s main purpose.
In my opinion, it would have been better to leave out completely the lines about nuclear power in the resolution but, since this has not been done, I would ask to support Mr Liese' s amendment.
Secondly, the resolution is deficient when it recommends general energy taxes and carbon dioxide taxes.
The majority of the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats have their doubts about an EU tax of this kind and, on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, voted against the proposal in this part of the resolution.
General taxes on industry are a blunt instrument for obtaining measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
To present energy taxes as the most important measure is simply to engage in empty rhetoric.
I believe instead that we should be encouraging the individual EU States to take responsibility for achieving the required level of reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
It is therefore up to the individual Member States to find the most effective tools, best suited to their own national circumstances, for achieving the objectives in question.
Specifically targeted charges on carbon dioxide emissions should be more effective than general taxes, but there are also other options for individual Member States.
If need be, general EU taxes can be given an overarching dimension.
In my opinion, the prerequisites for devising tax instruments and tax legislation differ very considerably from one EU country to the next.
By supporting the proposal for EU taxes in the energy sphere, I do not want to be a party to adopting a principle which limits the individual EU countries' autonomy in tax matters.
There are members of the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats who, because of the above-mentioned contents of the text of the resolution, intend to vote against the resolution in its entirety.
I personally am going to vote in favour of the resolution, but with the reservations I have just mentioned.
Mr President, Commissioner, the series of climate summits that began seven years ago with Rio has produced some fine resolutions which have been full of aims ever more ambitious than those that came before.
The time for real action has not yet got under way, however, nor has it even begun.
Achieving demanding aims is not childsplay, as some people in this Chamber seem to assume.
In its resolutions, Parliament should not give priority to certain types of measures at the expense of others. All possible means of reducing emissions have to be adopted immediately.
In particular, this means trading emissions quotas, which is an effective way of reducing emissions, if clear rules based on the mechanisms of a market economy are established.
It is also very important that we do not limit our range of options by excluding the flexible mechanisms of carbon dioxide-free nuclear power.
The argument that says nuclear energy is not a sustainable means of producing energy, on account of the waste it produces, and cannot thus be included in the clean development mechanisms, is simply not tenable.
The nuclear power industry is the only energy business sector that has incorporated the costs associated with the entire lifespan of its product in its prices, and thus takes full responsibility for the safe depositing of its waste.
I would like to remind those Members here who continue to speak against nuclear power from one debate to the next that, but for the current level of nuclear energy being used, carbon dioxide emissions would immediately grow by 800 million tons every year.
We will not mention what sort of effects there would be if the world' s additional needs for energy were fully met without building more nuclear power plants.
Giving up the use of nuclear power may be a subject for populists in the developed countries of Europe, or here in Parliament, where it really is a populist subject, but the realistic alternative is nowhere else to be found, not even in those countries the Union is going to embrace in the future.
Mr President, if the overall social human and environmental benefits of clean air are to be secured, then the standards laid down by the EU's recent directive on vehicle emissions and fuel quality must be strictly adhered to.
There must be maximum cooperation between the EU Member State governments and all interested bodies so that a reduction in the use of CO2 becomes a reality.
I welcome the debate that took place this week in Parliament on the uses of alternative energy resources.
The Irish Government has brought out a Green Paper on sustainable energy, which is to be given special status within our national development plan for the period 2000-2006.
This Green Paper discusses the framework for reducing CO2 emissions within all sectors of our society.
More funding must be put aside for alternative energy resources and there is also an anticipation that there will be a switch from the use of solid fuel and oil to natural gas and renewable energy sources and power generation in the future.
This plan also proposes measures targeted at various consumer sectors which are designed to enhance energy awareness, expertise and practice in such areas as appliance purchasing, use of energy in the home, building installations, heating systems and energy management in industry, the services sector and also the public sector.
The publication of the Green Paper on sustainable energy in Ireland should be viewed as a positive contribution to the debate on how we deal with the climate change threat within the energy sector.
Various Members have asked questions and raised points, to which both the representatives of the Council and the Commission intend to reply.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, I have been listening to this debate with great interest, and it must be said that that I have nothing but respect for the high level of knowledge the European Parliament has regarding this subject.
Many MEPs have mentioned examples of problems, such as floods, storms and various meteorological catastrophes, which show that climate change is already happening.
I agree with what everyone has said here.
I also agree with what many have pointed out, that Kyoto is only the first step.
After the commitments of Kyoto we will have to be able to commit to greater reductions in emissions to be able to prevent global warming, which is happening dangerously fast.
There are two main aspects to this as far as the European Union is concerned. The first is the European Union' s action to reduce emissions in its own area, which is also a key issue with respect to the EU' s international credibility.
The Union really still has much to do in this area, which is something many MEPs have also mentioned.
I would like to comment briefly on the question of an energy tax.
It is absolutely right, as Mr Wijkman, as far as I remember, said, that there are too many fossil fuels in the world, in other words, market forces are not sufficient to limit their use.
The consumer behaviour patterns we all show affect the climate, and an energy tax, a carbon dioxide tax, is one way to make the price an eco-label.
We all know that it has been difficult in the European Union to take a decision on an energy tax but, for example, the conclusions of the Cologne Summit state the importance of this issue.
In my opinion, this question should be high up on the agenda of the Ecofin Council.
One step in the right direction is that achieved on Monday in the Environment Council, which is for a Council common position on a 'strategic directive to assess environmental effects' , which will be a good tool to evaluate the impact on the environment, including the effect of emissions on the climate, of different programmes and action.
The other aspect of our huge and difficult task is progress in international negotiations.
As I said in my opening speech, it is now essential to build bridges with the other players; many who have spoken here stressed quite rightly that we must build cooperation with players other than just the United States.
This is absolutely true, but I myself would certainly not see the USA in quite such a gloomy light as might have been inferred from some speeches.
I have the impression that the thinking is also changing in the USA.
Public opinion in the USA reveals concern about climate change.
This is also seen in the changing attitudes in business in the USA, and I myself have noticed this is also having an influence on politics.
Although we as yet have no certain proof that the rules for compliance with the Kyoto agreement and the mechanisms will turn out to be good rules, it is still completely feasible to establish sound rules in the planned timetable.
To the question of why the Union should not ratify the Kyoto Protocol during the sixth conference of the parties concerned, I would say that this will not be possible as we will not have any clear picture before that meeting of what we should be ratifying.
If we were to commit to ratification beforehand, it would also weaken our position in the talks and our chances of successfully addressing those issues which we aim to cover at the talks.
In spite of the fact that I consider ratification to be very important in itself, I still do not think it is yet possible.
In my opinion, the European Union has constantly demonstrated leadership with regard to this issue.
It is not at present as striking as it was, for example, at Kyoto, as we are now at the stage of the operation where we are plodding through the very many technical details.
Outwardly, this may not seem impressive, but it is absolutely essential.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what made the biggest impression on me during the conference in Bonn were the speeches by representatives of small island States.
The combined effects of climate changes affect, and have already affected, their respective countries in such a way that they are aware that the issue is important to their future and to their survival.
The anxiety about the future which they expressed in Bonn and the zeal with which they urged us to translate our words into actual deeds made an incredibly strong impression upon me.
I also listened to an old man from another island on which I had had the privilege to live for a short time.
He said to me: "I believe it is us ordinary people, who are thinking about our children and grandchildren, who are taking a longer-term view rather than you politicians.
You ought to reflect upon that fact.
Do not just think about your own periods of office, but contrive to raise your sights and look to the future which we ourselves face."
This was also a warning.
I do not, Mr Wijkman, want to be too optimistic and I hope it did not sound as if I believed this would be an easy fight.
An easy fight is just what we do not have at the moment.
We have made climate change into a concept which is politically correct and which is to be found in wordings, in documents and at the top of agendas. Unfortunately, however, we can see how the trends are in quite the wrong direction.
This means that we must act and that we must act now, because the effects will not perhaps become apparent for fifty or even a hundred years.
I agree with a lot of what has been said here about the value of integrating the environmental dimension into the whole of the transport sector and transport policy We in the Commission have also taken a number of important first steps. However, there is still much to be done in this area.
I believe that, if we are to succeed, then we must also provide ourselves with the tools and instruments which will enable us to make a difference.
We shall need more in the way of financial instruments of control. We must, in actual fact, put a price upon the environment so that we can actually see the alternatives developing.
We must involve all the various interested parties in a much broader way.
We shall need the help and cooperation of industry in order to achieve this. If we are to obtain sufficient political power and support for the purpose of taking the measures required, then we shall need to mobilise our respective citizens in all the Member States.
To reply, nonetheless, to the question about the ratification process: it is clear that the Commission and the European Union must continue to play a leading role.
I nevertheless regard ratification by the EU alone as a second-best alternative.
I think we must concentrate on getting the United States to join us in ratifying the agreement and that it should preferably do so at the same time as ourselves and as quickly as possible in connection with COP 6.
I also think that we must state clearly that we are concerned here with obtaining coordinated ratification from the EU. Otherwise, we shall not achieve that distribution of the burden which we have already agreed upon within the European Union.
We in the European Union ought therefore to ratify the agreement on a common basis and with all Member States on board.
We need to put more pressure upon all the Member States as they set about preparing their national plans.
We must show the way and take a more positive lead. We also need more power at our disposal throughout this process.
I hope that the documents which we in the Commission are to present at the beginning of next year will help us obtain the power to drive forward all the work on combating climate change.
I should like to thank you for all your valuable and constructive contributions.
I can also say that, from the Commission' s point of view, I cannot see us doing anything but support the amendments and the progressive resolution which Parliament has tabled.
I would like to notify you that I have received a proposal for a resolution pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 p.m.
Situation in Macao
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Macao.
I invite Mrs Hassi to take the floor on behalf of the Council.
Mr President, I am sorry that Mrs Siimes, who would be the right person to speak on this matter, is not here.
She is at present having talks with the European Parliament' s Committee on Budgets.
In any case, she is in the European Parliament building.
I shall therefore read the Council resolution.
On 20 December this year Macao returns to Chinese rule by virtue of the agreement made between Portugal and China.
Talks on effecting the transfer of power have been going on between Portugal and China.
In a spirit of friendship and cooperation the Portuguese/Chinese liaison group has prepared the transfer of power and regular meetings have been held over the last twelve years.
Macao will become a special administrative area, with broad autonomy except in foreign policy and defence.
All the other administrative matters of the area will thus be in the hands of the local people, and will be their responsibility.
The European Union has had a special relationship with Macao, via Portugal, and the Union' s institutions have themselves prepared for the forthcoming transfer of power.
The Commission presented the Council and Parliament with a report on Macao entitled "The European Union and Macao: Relations after the Year 2000" .
The Council approved the conclusions on Macao with reference to the report in its meeting of 10 December 1999.
In addition, the Helsinki Summit delivered its opinion on Macao as part of the Presidency' s conclusions.
The European Union supports Macao' s status as a special administrative area, and will be following developments there closely.
The bonds are old and strong between Europe and Macao, making the relationship a special one.
The legal system, the rights of citizens, freedoms and values are similar in the Member States of the European Union and Macao.
They have important trade and investment connections and they enjoy very strong cultural links.
After the transfer of power, the European Union will monitor the reality of the 'one country, two systems' principle.
The European Union wishes to emphasise the importance of this special identity for Macao and holds it to be important to maintain citizens' rights and freedoms in accordance with the Community resolution of 1987 and the special administrative areas' constitution as laid down by China and Portugal.
The European Union will monitor the implementation of the international conventions that Macao is party to.
The European Union regards it as being especially important that the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and the basic standards established in the conventions associated with the ILO are applied in all their respects in Macao.
Trade relations between the European Union and Macao are important.
The EU is the third largest investor in Macao and the region' s second largest trading partner.
It has been agreed to continue with the agreement on trade and cooperation made between the EC and Macao after the transfer process is completed.
This agreement will create a lasting framework for cooperation between the special administrative area of Macao and the EU, and will help to maintain regular dialogue on economic matters and matters of commerce and cooperation.
This link will be further reinforced by the accreditation of Macao' s economic and trade office to the European Communities and the accreditation of the Commission' s Hong Kong delegation to Macao.
The example of Hong Kong will give us cause to believe that the transfer of power in Macao will proceed without conflict.
Macao' s small size and unity, as well as the international support she receives, will safeguard the future development of the special administrative area.
This weekend I will be travelling to Macao to represent the Commission at the hand-over ceremonies.
As honourable Members might imagine, there is a certain sense of déjà vu for me in all of this.
Some might say that I am becoming rather an aficionado of hand-over ceremonies.
I have been referred to by some as the last Governor but that has never actually been true.
Certainly, my great friend and former colleague, Vasco Rocha Vieira, has more claim to the title than I do.
In making this statement this morning I want to place on record my admiration for all he has done in Macao in his long tenure as Governor.
His distinguished record as a public servant of skill and integrity is, I am sure, recognised in his own country as it is in Macao, and in this Parliament as it is in the Commission.
I am much looking forward to being able this weekend to salute that service as my gubernatorial colleague leaves his office.
Macao, like Hong Kong before it, will begin a new era after 19 December as a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China.
It will be different but, in crucial respects, life must and will stay the same.
That is what is meant by the concept of "one country - two systems" under which Macao, like Hong Kong, will retain its freedoms and fundamental rights and enjoy a high degree of autonomy as a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China.
Those rights and freedoms, as the Presidency said a few moments ago, are set out in terms in the Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration which both parties have solemnly pledged to uphold.
The European Union will continue to take a close interest in Macao after 19 December.
The Commission has recently published a communication entitled "The European Union and Macao beyond 2000".
The Council endorsed the communication last week and welcomed and reinforced the commitments it makes.
In particular, the communication underlines the central importance we attach to the full implementation of the joint declaration. It makes clear that, as in the case of Hong Kong, the Commission will take a close interest in this matter and - again as we do for Hong Kong - we will publish an annual report on Macao.
We will follow the implementation of international conventions of which Macao is a member, in particular the UN Covenants on Civil and Political Rights and on Economic, Social and Cultural rights.
We also intend to work to strengthen EU-Macao relations, notably by encouraging EU companies to continue to invest in the territory.
The trade and cooperation agreement between the European Community and Macao, signed in 1992, will remain in force.
The Commission welcomes the accreditation of a Macao economic and trade office to the European Communities.
It will help to maintain and reinforce our dialogue on trade, economic and cooperation issues.
I feel strongly, as honourable Members will understand, about our continuing interest in Macao, about our continuing obligation.
We want to have as good a relationship with the future chief executive of the special administrative region as we have had with my friend the present Governor.
I would like to invite the chief executive to pay an early visit to Brussels; and it would also be good to welcome the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administration here when he can manage it or, alternatively, his internationally renowned deputy.
What is happening in Macao next Sunday is an important moment in Portugal's history, in China's history, in Europe's history.
Portugal, like the country I know best - or used to know best - has done its own best to discharge the responsibilities bequeathed by history honourably and well.
We all have to take account of different circumstances, of different challenges; nothing is ever quite the same.
But when I was in Hong Kong I always felt that when I talked to my colleague across the Pearl River Delta I was working with someone who shared my values and who had a profound sense of duty.
We all run our course.
Portugal has run her course in Macao and is fortunate that her honour during this passage has been in the hands of Governor Vieira and his officials in the Government of Macao.
Thank you, Commissioner.
At times I was not sure whether you spoke in your capacity as Commissioner or as Governor, but in this case both problems are very much linked.
Mr President, the European People' s Party has repeatedly stated that it considers the Council and the Commission' s adoption of a public position before 20 December to be of fundamental importance. That is the date on which the transfer of sovereignty of the territory of Macao to the People' s Republic of China will take place.
I would therefore like to show my appreciation and approval of the positions adopted here by the representatives of the Presidency of the Commission and my wholehearted agreement with the tribute paid by Commissioner Christopher Patten to Governor Vasco Rocha Vieira.
The other political Groups have finally accepted the position of the European People' s Party and we therefore consider it essential that this debate takes place here and now, by happy coincidence on the day on which a delegation from the Chinese Parliament is visiting us.
The intervention of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Commission will not only contribute to providing a more substantial safeguard for a combination of interests that were stated in good time, but will also reaffirm a genuine leading role for the European Union, which will ensure that China continues to see it as a favoured partner in discussions on a global strategy for peace, to the building of democracy, to the safeguard of human rights, to development, to dialogue and to modernisation on a worldwide scale.
For more than four and a half centuries, the presence of the Portuguese in Macao has almost always been peaceful and has almost always been as important for Portugal and for Europe as it has for China.
Therefore, what is about to take place in this quite unique case must involve the European Union in a very special way.
It is worth recognising the importance of the fact that Macao was the first permanent point of contact that Europe established with the Far East, in the middle of the 16th Century.
Macao is therefore a symbol of almost five centuries of peaceful coexistence and of mutual advantages in a framework of the most varied diplomatic, cultural and commercial activities. This has facilitated contact between the European and Chinese civilisations, the promotion and protection of China' s external trade and a significant assertion of European interests.
All of the following has contributed to Macao' s uniqueness - its history, its traditions and cultural forms and the racial mix and coexistence which have held sway there for such a long time and which are an extraordinary asset to the new relationship between the European Union and China.
This is also why it makes perfect sense and presents a major political opportunity for us to adopt a clear position, one which will express the well-founded expectations and the commitment of the Union' s citizens concerning the future of the special administrative region of Macao in the political context of China and concerning Europe' s relations with both, with regard to defence and the promotion of human rights, of other constitutional values and those of the specific legal framework which applies to the region by means of its new statute and of the principle of "one country, two systems" .
Let the same thing also be said for the principle of autonomy and Macao' s current economic and social systems as well as, on a wider scale, for the European Union' s relations with that part of the Far East, once the experience brings to an end certain possibilities, which may be of extraordinary relevance to this part of the world.
As far as these and other aspects are concerned, some of which involve my country more specifically, it is to be hoped that the conclusions of this debate will make an appropriate contribution to achieving the aims that have been stated.
On the other hand though, the proposal to produce annual reports on the European Union' s relations with Macao, which has been put forward by the Commission and which should also be welcomed, should not preclude the European Parliament itself from paying the closest attention to the matter, particularly by following its development from 20 December. It could do this by broadening the exchange of information and interinstitutional cooperation in this area, by creating its own interconnecting contact group, by analysing and debating the periodical reports that are presented to it, in short, by studying the development of all aspects of Macao' s overall situation.
This should be done in view of the transformations in international relations in the Far East and in view of the changes due to take place in this area, not forgetting the new situations which will eventually result from China' s entry into the WTO and by the development and/or qualitative change in its relationship with the United States of America.
Mr President, the motion for a joint resolution, the draft of which has been presented and the substance of which will progress very quickly if it is favourably received, will be able to make a significant contribution to achieving all of the objectives that have been mentioned.
Mr President, on behalf of the European Socialist Party, I would like to say that we are delighted with the declaration by the President-in-Office of the Council and also with Commissioner Patten' s very pleasant and intelligent statement concerning Governor Rocha Vieira.
I have personally been connected with the issue of Macao since the revolution of 25 April.
I remember that, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I met my Chinese counterpart at the UN immediately following the revolution, and he expressed his feelings by saying "for us, Macao is not a colony; therefore, although you are shedding your colonies, do not touch Macao; it will sort itself out in its own time" .
The process was actually settled in a fairly cordial manner and in line with the friendship that has traditionally existed between Portugal and China.
The joint Sino-Portuguese Declaration - which Commissioner Patten has already referred to here - is a good declaration and contains, on the whole, the broad ideas that should guide Macao for the next fifty years as a special zone, with its own uniqueness in the overall context of China, that is, by respecting the legislation established by the Portuguese in Macao.
Macao, as has already been said, has always been a melting pot of cultures and of new meetings of cultures, of religions too, and has always been a territory where peace, tranquillity and coexistence between peoples of the most diverse ethnic backgrounds have reigned.
This must continue.
The role of the European Union, the Commission and the European Parliament is crucial in this regard, given that, as has already been emphasised, many conventions between the European Union and Macao have been signed, and it is right that over the next fifty years, the European Parliament and our European Institutions should be able to follow Macao' s development, which I think will be a happy one.
I also feel honoured that I shall be present in Macao on 20 December.
I am sure that the ceremony will be exemplary and I must say that, as a Portuguese Member of this Parliament, I am delighted with the circumstances in which, at the end of the century and of the millennium, Portugal' s cycle of imperialism is coming to a close.
Portugal was the first European Empire and will be the last European empire and we might say that the cycle is being closed with a "golden key" , to the extent that, on the one hand, Portugal is conducting a peaceful and friendly handover of the territory of Macao to the People' s Republic of China and, in the same sense, that Timor gained its independence in a fortunate way.
These were the ideals of the democratic revolution, which transformed my country in 1974.
Portugal is a different country today, a free country, a country in which people coexist peacefully, one in which human rights are respected and whose main objective is peace.
It is in the spirit of peace and respect for human rights that we shall be sincere in handing over the administration of Macao to China, as it now falls within China' s competence, in the hope that China will respect the commitments that were signed jointly in the Sino-Portuguese Declaration.
I am grateful for the way in which the Governor of Macao was spoken of, whom, moreover, I had the honour of appointing to this post when I was President of Portugal, and I can say that Governor Rocha Vieira is truly a man who has honoured Portugal and who has enabled Portugal to leave the territory of Macao with its head held high and with a clear conscience.
Thank you, President Soares.
I am sure that you will represent the European Parliament well in Macao, even if, as a Portuguese person, your heart will be slightly heavy.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission's communication and today's statements.
Macao offers an opportunity for trade, dialogue and engagement which is the way to bring freedom and democracy to the Communist dictatorship of the People's Republic of China.
I welcome too Commissioner Patten's honourable personal commitment and record of success in this regard.
However, for the Union to talk of a shared legal system between Europe and Macao stretches credibility.
Recently, a private commercial dispute involving the financial interests of the mainland's political leaders led to the kidnap in Macao of an innocent Australian-Chinese businessman, Mr James Pang, and his jailing on the mainland for seven years on trumped-up charges.
Since China has refused to agree to the establishment of a court of final appeal, Macao has barely even the semblance of an independent judiciary which Hong Kong has.
Today's news from Hong Kong in this regard is not good.
The court of final appeal has reversed the judgement of a lower court and convicted two young men for defacing a flag at a peaceful demonstration, despite the incorporation of the ICCPR into the territory's law.
It shows how supposed safeguards on freedom in Hong Kong are being quickly eroded.
Let us keep talking to China on Macao and other issues but let us not fool ourselves that the Christmas gift we give Macao next week will protect the freedoms of its people.
In the communication, the Commission talks of "a solid relationship in terms of culture and civilisation".
I hope the Council and Commission will assure us that they will not shrink from expressing Europe's outrage at the continued assaults on human rights and human liberties which pose a major challenge to us in the next century.
Mr President, after the transfer of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to China, with the admirable leading role played by Commissioner Patten, the transfer of Macao, by agreement between Portugal and the People' s Republic of China, is a necessary and inevitable act that must be welcomed.
However, as the joint resolution that has been presented states, the necessity of this act does not mean that the European Union is no longer interested in the future of a territory which has such close links with our history and even our culture.
Macao is a current symbol of that Portuguese, Hispanic and European spirit of adventure, which led us to establish human and trade relationships on every continent.
Today, Macao can and must serve as a democratic door or window which will enable us to continue a new type of relationship with this huge country China, to our mutual benefit and to that of all humanity.
To this end, particularly on behalf of my Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and although we agree with the joint resolution, I would like to emphasise the need to safeguard Macao' s autonomy by consolidating its civil society and its democracy with freedom of political association, by keeping the Union open to the territory' s inhabitants and by strengthening trade relations with it.
Taking advantage of this opportunity to speak and of the opportunity provided by the presence here of President Xanana Gusmão, I would like to state my belief that, taking into account its pressing needs and our common identity, the European Union must immediately establish special links with Timor in order to guarantee its economic and social development and independence.
Mr President, we are delighted with the way in which the preparation for the region of Macao passing into the sovereignty of the People' s Republic of China on 20 December has taken place.
We hope that no doubts remain as to the climate of mutual understanding and of political will shown by Portugal and by the People' s Republic of China and that no one still feels ambiguous about the outlook for the future development of the special administrative region of Macao.
We think that conditions have been created for economic and cultural relations to develop on a basis of cooperation and mutual benefit between the People' s Republic of China, specifically through Macao, and the European Union and its Member States.
We agree with the joint resolution presented here despite some differences of opinion, which shows our firm desire to work together in developing these friendly relations at this historic moment, which we welcome wholeheartedly.
Mr President, four days away from the transfer of power in Macao, the resolution, with which we agree, is extraordinarily valuable because it is confident and because it provides guarantees for the future.
Over these few days, there are two other curious coincidences taking place here in Strasbourg.
Firstly, with us here we have Xanana Gusmão, who has just arrived from East Timor.
Although in different circumstances, which are painful and very harsh, Timor is like Macao: it represents another promise of progress for human rights, freedom and for the rule of law in Asia, another beacon of hope with links to European culture through Portuguese culture and experience.
The second coincidence is that the interparliamentary meeting with the People' s Republic of China is being held now, which gives us the opportunity to communicate the depth of our feeling and the strength of our expectations for Macao and its future.
Portugal takes pride in the efforts that have been made in the territory of Macao and in the hopeful signs that several centuries of peaceful coexistence have left there.
One of the lasting symbols that should now be highlighted is the utter uniqueness of Macao, the open cultural tolerance between peoples and cultures, religious freedom, traces of unique symbiosis and a legal culture founded on the principles and values of the rule of law and human rights.
In this peaceful process, one of dialogue between Portugal and China, it was essential that China clearly embraced Macao' s unique nature.
It also had to give solemn guarantees that it would preserve and value it in the context of its autonomy, enshrined in law.
For China, this is how its policy known as "one country, two systems" works.
For us, it is the direct expression of the inalienable rights of the citizens of Macao.
I am delighted at the broad convergence that we have been able to obtain on this joint resolution as well as on the positions stated by the Presidency, by the Council and by the Commission.
They are a very positive and promising sign for which the citizens of Macao are grateful and which we Portuguese, still speaking on their behalf, also appreciate.
This collective attention on the part of Europe is the best additional, practical guarantee that we can give, the best way that we have of guaranteeing that Macao' s unique nature is safeguarded, and of continuing to deal with Macao in a unique way, not by putting it into the pot with every other country.
Mr President, like slaves in Ancient Rome, Africans in the plantations in the Americas or, better still, like serfs, the inhabitants of Macao change master without anyone having consulted them, without them having been able to express their views on the subject.
Once again, a people' s right to self-determination is being trampled underfoot, just as it was in Chechnya.
I have heard - and I regret this - Mr Soares and others likening East Timor to Macao.
This is a completely shameful parallel: East Timor is going to become independent, whereas Macao is moving towards a communist dictatorship.
Mr President, I have nothing else to add other than to say that the Finnish delegation will be led by the Finnish President, Mr Ahtisaari, who will also be representing the country holding the Presidency of the EU, in the ceremony to mark the transfer of power.
I am pleased that the European Parliament representation is also a prestigious one, as the former President of Portugal will be representing it.
The Council would like to add its voice to the hopes expressed here that the transfer of power will be a peaceful and splendid occasion.
First of all I would like to recognise, as I am sure the whole Parliament does, the role that the honourable Member Mr Soares has played, not only in the restoration of democracy, decency and human rights to one of the greatest European countries, but also the role he has played historically in the end of empire, and in the ending of empire as decently as could be managed, not least in Macao.
It is true, as the last speaker Mr Gollnisch pointed out, that Macao represents a free society: a free city on the edge of China, on the edge of Asia, as Mr Graça Moura pointed out at the beginning of our debate; an extraordinary crossroads between east and west ever since the 16th century.
I have enough faith, enough belief, in the values which Macao and Hong Kong represent to believe that, whatever the style of government in the region, those values will survive and prosper, not least because they are rooted in people's hearts.
Mr Gollnisch spoke of his concerns about future freedom of worship in Macao.
Well, if I take Hong Kong as an example, I do not think Mr Gollnisch should have too much to worry about.
I will be attending mass next Sunday morning in the cathedral in Hong Kong with my friends in the parish, as I used to when I was Governor.
There has been no sign of anything in Hong Kong other than the continuing vitality of the Christian churches.
I am sure that will be the case in Macao as well.
But we do have to be concerned about the survival of the rule of law, the survival of civil liberties, the survival of human rights, as Mr Watson pointed out in his valuable corrective.
Issues like the James Pang case did cause concern to the international community.
The international community was concerned about the earlier decision taken by the Court of Final Appeal in Hong Kong, or rather the reversal of that decision by the parliament in Beijing.
We are concerned to speak out when there seems to us to be actions taken which threaten the continuance of the rule of law; and we would not be true to the promises we have made to people in Macao and Hong Kong, we would not be true to our own values, if we did not speak out when those values appeared to us to be under threat.
What sensible leaders in China will recognise is that the return of Macao, like the return of Hong Kong, did not just mean an extremely rich and prosperous asset returned to the motherland, but represented something more than that.
Hong Kong and Macao are both great international cities; they can play a very important part in the continuing development and successful opening of China to the rest of the world; and in playing that role Macao will have all our best wishes for the exciting period of history which I am sure lies ahead.
I would like to close, as I closed my earlier remarks, by referring to the outstanding record of the present Governor.
I would like to say that I am sure the best wishes of Parliament go to his successor, the Chief Executive, who has a difficult job, but one which I am sure he will carry out to the very best of his ability.
Thank you, Commissioner Patten.
I would like to inform you that I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Beijing Action Platform
The next item is the debate on the oral questions
(B5-0035/99) by Mrs Theorin and
(B5-0037/99) by Mrs Theorin
to the Commission and the Council, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the European Union follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform.
All the European Member States adopted the Beijing Platform for Action.
We committed ourselves to 12 areas. They are all indispensable for women's full enjoyment of their human rights.
Five years later it is time for an evaluation.
The first area is poverty.
We pledged to adopt macro-economic policies for the needs of women in poverty and to ensure women's equal access to economic resources.
But single mothers and older women remain the main victims of poverty.
The second area is education.
We promised to ensure women's equal access to science and technology and life-long education.
Unfortunately, education of women and men still follows a stereotyped pattern.
The third area is health.
We agreed to increase resources for women's health.
Yet middle-aged and elderly women remain beset, more than men, with health problems.
Maternity and child mortality are still too high.
The fourth area is violence.
We promised to eliminate gender-based violence, yet violence against women remains the single largest injury to European women.
Between 15% and 25% of women are battered during pregnancy and sexual trafficking is increasing, while only 2% to 3% of those men who commit rape go to prison.
The fifth area is armed conflict.
We promised to increase women's participation in conflict resolution and protect women in armed conflicts, yet women still make up the overwhelming majority of those affected by armed conflict but are absent from peace negotiations and peace transition initiatives.
The sixth area is women and the economy.
We pledged to promote women's access to employment and control over economic resources.
Women remain virtually absent from or are poorly represented in economic decision making.
Women earn, on average, 75% of the hourly wages of men and their employment rate is about 20% lower.
Decision making is the seventh area.
We promised to ensure women's equal access to, and full participation in, power structures and decision making, yet nowhere is the gap between de jure and de facto gender equality greater than in the area of decision making.
The eighth area is institutional mechanisms for the advancement of women.
We agreed to mainstream gender in legislation, public policies and programmes.
Unfortunately, the political will has been absent.
Gender mainstreaming and gender impact assessment are far from a reality.
Women's human rights is the ninth area.
We promised to fully implement the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
Today there is still insufficient recognition of the principle that human rights apply equally to women and men.
The tenth area is media.
We pledged to promote a non-stereotyped portrayal of women in the media yet, as a result of massive male domination of media power, the media continue to project negative and degrading images of women.
The eleventh area is environment.
The European Members pledged to involve women actively in environmental decision making.
Women's experience and skill remain insufficiently used in environmental policy actions.
The twelfth and last area is the girl child.
We promised to eliminate all forms of discrimination against the girl child, yet statistics show that a girl child is discriminated against from the earliest stages of life, through her childhood and into adulthood.
This is the discouraging result five years after Beijing and after 25 years of effort since the United Nations incurred the responsibility for promoting women's rights at national, regional and international levels.
It is high time for the UN "Beijing plus five" special session in June next year to take concrete action to implement the Beijing platform.
An action-oriented plan for advancing the Beijing goals is necessary if all governments are to implement strategies for gender equality in all 12 critical areas of concern.
The European Union must play a truly active role.
The preparatory work at European level is already far advanced.
The European Union work must be speeded up so it can have a real influence before positions are fixed at international level.
Our question is: how will the Commission and the Council ensure that Parliament becomes a real partner, both in the preparatory work on the European Union input to "Beijing plus five", and in the European Union's official delegation to the New York Conference?
Mr President, we thought that the honourable Member, Mrs Theorin, would ask her question in Swedish, and we have therefore prepared our answer in Swedish.
Thank you, in any case, for having taken up this very important question.
As Mrs Theorin is certainly aware, the European Union' s preparatory conference, which was planned for December of this year within the framework of the European Commission, will now take place in February of next year.
The intention is that the applicant countries, non-governmental organisations and, of course, Members of the European Parliament who have already been invited as lecturers and mediators should also take part in this conference.
Since this falls within the sphere of the Commission' s activities, it is only appropriate to turn to the Commission for more information.
To confine ourselves to the latest development within the Council, the Finnish Presidency has prepared a questionnaire addressed to all the Member States and to all the European institutions on the subject of "Women in the Decision-making Process" . Their answer has made it possible for the Finnish Presidency to prepare a report containing nine indicators, together with recommendations.
This report was debated in the Council (Employment and Social Affairs) on 22 October of this year.
Parallel to the debates based on the Presidency' s above-mentioned report, the Council has adopted a number of conclusions in which account is taken of the Finnish Presidency' s report.
The nine indicators it is proposed should be used when next monitoring implementation of the Beijing Action Platform are included in these conclusions, and a reminder is provided of the Member States' commitment, in accordance with the Beijing Action Platform, to achieve the equal participation of women and men at all levels where power is exercised and decisions taken.
The Member States are urged to take any necessary measures.
Furthermore, the Council is following with interest the debates which are taking place in Parliament, particularly in the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities in which the honourable Member is chairperson
My personal comment is that I agree with Mrs Theorin that violence against women is the greatest individual violation of women' s rights.
When it comes to the conference in New York, it ought to be pointed out that this is an Intergovernmental Conference and that there is therefore no official delegation as such from the European Union but, instead, delegations from the Member States.
Moreover, the Commission has observer status.
Mr President, my answer has two parts: the first part concerns what has been done so far following the Beijing Conference and how the European Commission has supported the action decided on the joint platform, and the second concerns the role of the European Parliament with regard to the United Nations Conference in the summer of 2000.
I agree with Mrs Theorin that the situation is particularly dramatic for women in many places on the planet and is becoming critical.
Unfortunately, globalisation, development, technologies, the free movement of capital, goods and, above all, people often have negative rather than positive implications for women and children in the Third World.
I should like to refer to some of the action taken by the Commission; however, I would stress that there is, I believe, a great deal of room for further mobilisation by both the Commission and the Member States and, of course, a special policy to support these issues is needed, both in the run up to the conference and afterwards, within the fifth women' s action plan.
As you know, the European Commission drafted an announcement in 1995, in parallel to the Beijing Conference, in which it adopted gender mainstreaming in all development policies.
A vote on gender mainstreaming in all individual policies was held in 1995 and guidelines were drafted for the Commission services to follow.
A budget line was allocated to increasing awareness and supporting action for women in developing countries.
It was agreed to create indicators and, in April 1999, the first announcement was made of the results of these joint indicators, which take account of the place of women in the economy, in politics and in society in relation to the development programmes approved.
The first two-year report evaluating the results of these policies will be presented in 2000.
I repeat that some action has been taken since Beijing, but this needs to be stepped up and consolidated with much more specific measures.
As far as the participation of the European Parliament is concerned, we must acknowledge that, for years now, the European Parliament has been instrumental in raising public awareness both in Europe and throughout the world and in the decision-making process; i.e. it has affected the decisions taken by the Council and the Commission.
The European Parliament therefore has an exceptionally important role and it will have a great deal of input into this procedure up to June.
As you know, a committee in which the European Parliament is involved is responsible for pre-conference planning.
The Member States are helping to organise the United Nations Conference.
As the Presidency has stressed, we shall be taking part as observers.
We have the previous experience of Beijing but that will not prevent continuous and fundamental cooperation throughout this period so that we can arrive at common positions in the fifteen Member States. This will be particularly important for the positions which we will put forward and in giving us the strength to put these positions forward in June.
Mr President, would it be possible to conclude the debate now?
This should last about ten minutes.
Otherwise we shall have to stay here for the whole day.
Commissioner, we have to prepare the room for the formal sitting.
That means that we will continue the debate until Mrs Gröner and then break off.
Mr President, in 1995 at the fourth World Conference of Women in Beijing, organised by the UN, 189 countries adopted a platform for action and a declaration in which the participating governments committed themselves to improving the situation of women.
If we examine the results after almost five years and with a view to the June meeting in New York, we should ask ourselves: What progress have we made?
What has improved and what has got even worse?
We are witnessing many armed conflicts, violence against women and extreme poverty in many cases.
On the borders of the European Union, we have endured the wars in Bosnia and in Kosovo, which have still not returned to an acceptable state of normality.
There are currently conflicts in Chechnya, in other regions of the Caucasus, in Afghanistan, especially the Panjshir Valley, in Africa and other regions.
Violence and terrorism have been present in Algeria and still no solution has been found to normalise life and allow progress in all areas.
In many parts of the world, women are victims of violence and traditional practices which do not take account of their personal dignity or their human rights.
They are barred from professional life and even access to health care.
The trade in human beings particularly affects women, who are victims of organised mafias and prostitution.
This particularly affects younger women and, unfortunately, does not only happen in the less developed countries, but also in the wealthy countries.
Women are reacting, however.
They are reacting more and more and they are rebelling against those situations which degrade them and marginalise them.
They want to participate in professional life, in political life, in the education of their children and in the training of young women.
Numerous laws have been implemented to protect women and allow them to fight inequality, as well as allowing them to participate in political activity.
Women are reacting: they make use of the laws in their favour, they organise themselves into cooperatives and manage to bring about a form of development which allows them to improve their quality of life.
They want to participate more and more in technological innovations; they have discovered the opportunities offered by organising themselves and establishing associations in their places of residence, in their work-places and in their regions.
They are getting better and better at fighting the old problems and achieving better lives.
However, despite the progress made, we have to continue working so that many women may have more dignified and fair lives.
The meeting in New York, following on from the conference in Beijing, will be a good opportunity to continue working along this line.
I therefore ask for more participation by the Parliament and support from the European institutions so that our presence there may be effective.
Mr President, the European Parliament was, and is, the driving force behind the implementation of the Beijing Action Platform, as the Commissioner has just acknowledged.
We considered the fourth action programme on equal opportunities to be the consequence of it.
We have tried to include the gender mainstreaming policy in all policy areas.
We have launched specific measures such as those to combat violence against women.
I was present as rapporteur for the European Parliament at both the NGO Conference in Beijing and at the Intergovernmental Conference of the 189 countries and I have, of course, followed developments over the last five years very closely, both in the European Union and in the developing countries.
I recall that the EU spoke out for women with one voice under the Spanish Presidency of the Council and was able during negotiations to argue important points and include them in the Action Platform from this position of strength.
That was the happy experience.
That the Members of the European Parliament had an undetermined status and were not fully integrated in the European delegation was the less happy experience.
The situation was different at subsequent negotiations, for example, at the WTO in Seattle.
We should therefore continue to follow this new practice at future international conferences.
This brings me to my specific question, which is directed mainly at the Council, and we expect an equally specific answer: what status will MEPs have at the next conference, the Beijing plus 5 Conference in New York?
We are already involved with the Commission in preparing the content for the conference in February but we are still waiting for a clear message from the Council, since the question of if and how many members are to represent the European Parliament in New York has not yet been clarified.
Time is running out.
The ECE Conference, i.e. the UN Commission on Europe, is being held in Geneva in January and it is not clear whether we have been included in the delegation to it.
We need a straight answer here today.
Preparation of the content by the Commission, in which we have been included, is well under way.
Firstly, the content of the twelve crucial areas defined in the Action Platform is being dealt with. Secondly, strategies are being clearly discussed.
We do not want to formulate new objectives; what we want is a clear analysis and evaluation of where progress has been made in our Member States, where we should concentrate and where we should step up efforts so that the European Union can achieve progress in New York for the women of Europe and throughout the world?
Thank you, Mrs Gröner.
The debate will continue after the Commission' s statement. Unfortunately, this will be after the reports by Mr Papayannakis and Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, but before question time at 5.30 p.m.
Does that perhaps answer your question Mrs Theorin?
I must now suspend the sitting for the formal sitting at 11.30 a.m.
As rapporteur, Mrs Theorin would like to ask a further question.
Mr President, although I fully appreciate that we have to break off in order to award the prize to Xanana Gusmão, whom I fully and completely support, I should nonetheless like, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, to ask whether we are to see as discrimination against women the fact that we do not get to continue our debate at three o' clock on the dot, which I think would have been quite the natural thing to do.
I would appeal to you, Mr President, to alter matters in such a way that you also respect the women here in Parliament and in such a way that we might have the final part of our discussion at three o' clock, with the other subjects discussed afterwards.
Mrs Theorin, that was the arrangement from the outset.
The agenda was set under the auspices of a lady President, so certainly no thoughts were voiced in that direction.
We have indeed often had cases in the past where debates had to be adjourned for formal sittings.
It is normal procedure here in this House and, thank God, has nothing to do with the report.
I should now like to suspend the sitting so that the room can be prepared for the formal sitting for Mr Gusmão, the Sakharov prize-winner.
(The sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
Mr President, we have just presented Mr Gusmão with the Sakharov prize in an atmosphere charged with emotion.
I hope that Parliament will not stop at applause but that it will also actually follow up the promise of solidarity with the people of East Timor and those responsible.
I would remind you - and Madam President has said this, something I am pleased about - how deeply ashamed I feel as a Member of this Parliament when I consider that former Sakharov prize-winners, including Mrs Leyla Zana, are still in Turkish prisons, whilst we make such a song and dance about welcoming Turkey as a candidate country.
I find this unacceptable.
Parliament must ensure that winners of the Sakharov prize are not just honoured on the day itself but that their fate is monitored afterwards as well.
It should be made absolutely clear that this needs to be done.
I blame both the Council and the Commission for overlooking this when Turkey was admitted.
(Loud applause)
Strictly speaking, that was not a point of order but it was apposite in the circumstances.
In my view, when Parliament undertakes a solemn presentation, it is also engaging in a solemn undertaking at the same time.
Mr President, I just want to have it confirmed to everyone beyond all doubt that the debate by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities concerning questions of equality and the Beijing Action Platform will continue at three o' clock.
I want this confirmed so that everyone knows about it, because it was previously intended to continue the debate later.
However, we must inform all Members of the European Parliament of this so that everyone can be here by three o' clock.
Yes, I am told it will continue at 3 o'clock.
Vote
The next item is the vote.
Procedure without report (Rule 158):
Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Hungary, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9725/1999 - C5-0190/1999 - 1997/0272(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and the Member States, on the one part, and the Czech Republic, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9726/1999 - C5-0191/1999 - 1997/0273(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
- Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Slovakia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9727/1999 - C5-0192/1999 - 1997/0274(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
- Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Poland, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9728/1999 - C5-0193/1999 - 1997/0275(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
- Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9729/1999 - C5-0194/1999 - 1997/0276(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
- Proposal for a Council and Commission decision relating to the conclusion of a protocol on the adaptation of the institutional aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one part, and Romania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Austria, of the Republic of Finland and of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (9730/1999 - C5-0195/1999 - 1997/0277(AVC)) (Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
- Proposal for a Council decision adopting a supplementary research programme to be implemented by the Joint Research Centre for the European Atomic Energy Community (COM(1999) 578 - C5-0286/1999 - 1999/0232(CNS)) (Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy)
Mr President, on a point of order, I have tabled amendments to this because it is a very unusual procedure.
The same thing happened four years ago, which is why I protested in committee.
It was suddenly placed on the agenda without proper documentation and without the proper procedures, and in this amendment we have asked the Commission to bring it forward three months before the end of the budgetary period so that it can be discussed properly in future.
It is about the Petten reactor in Holland, which we are always assured is for medical research.
However, we discovered when looking at the Commission documentation, which as I said was provided very late - in fact, only this week - that it actually deals with military-grade plutonium and research into that.
That is a very serious topic and we need to be properly informed on such research within the boundaries of the European Union.
I have tabled amendments to that effect.
We were not able to discuss it or to debate it either in committee or in plenary, which is why I am drawing it to your attention now.
Mr President, the Committee on Industry agreed to vote on this item only on condition that the Commission would come to the Chamber and give an explanation as to the procedure, and would give us certain assurances.
I see that the Commissioner responsible, Mr Busquin, is in the Chamber.
Commissioner Lamy gave that undertaking.
We will not vote until we have had a statement from the Commission, because of the very strange procedure being adopted.

Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appeared before the Committee on Industry on 6 December to present the results of the Research Council of 2 December. I informed the Committee that the ministers had agreed to a new supplementary research programme up to 2003, for the Petten High Flux Reactor in the Netherlands.
The Euratom Treaty does not provide for Parliament to be consulted. However, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement between this House and the Council, the latter undertook to formalise its agreement only after having requested Parliament' s opinion.
This is the procedure which the Council has followed and in which the Commission is not involved.
However, in view of its desire to keep Parliament informed, the Commission was careful to send its proposal to this House at the same time as to the Council.
I now understand that the urgency with which this procedure has taken place has not actually allowed Parliament to satisfactorily express its opinion on this proposal.
However, the Commission, as the body which will be responsible for implementing this programme, can only hope for its formal adoption.
The importance of this research reactor in the medical field in recent years cannot be ignored.
The Petten High Flux Reactor has produced 60% of the isotopes needed for cancer diagnoses and therapies in European hospitals and other medical centres.
Over six million diagnoses are made annually in Europe due to this work.
In addition, the Community is conducting medical research in this reactor, particularly on the development of new brain tumour therapies.
Finally, I must point out that this programme is being financed by three Member States only, namely the Netherlands, Germany and France.
Community financing is not being used. The High Flux Reactor also receives major financing from the European pharmaceutical industry.
On behalf of the Commission, I can only hope that Parliament will add its support to the Council' s.
Having said this, I am happy to discuss this matter further with this House at a future date.
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
Proposal for a Council regulation (EC) apportioning the quantities of grain provided for under the Food Aid Convention 1995 for the period 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999 (COM(1999) 384 - C5-0258/1999 - 1999/0162(CNS)) (Committee on Development and Cooperation)
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
Procedure without debate (Rule 114):
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0080/1999) by Mrs Grossetête, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on orphan medicinal products (9616/1999 - C5-0182/1999 - 1998/0240(COD))
(The President declared the common position approved)
- Report (A5-0088/1999) by Mr Miranda, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council - Effects of the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on current legislative procedures as at 1 May 1999 in the field of development and cooperation (SEC(1999) 581 - C4-0219/1999) Confirmation of first reading: COM(1994) 289 - C4-0090/1994 - 1994/0167(COD) - former 1994/0167(SYN)
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- Report (A5-0091/1999) by Mr Chichester, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 80/181/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement (COM(1999) 40 - C4-0076/1999 - 1999/0014(COD))
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Report (A5-0097/1999) by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the Parliament Delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text, adopted by the Conciliation Committee, on a European Parliament and Council decision establishing the second phase of the Community action programme in the field of education "SOCRATES" (C5-0267/1999 - 1998/0195(COD))
(Parliament approved the joint text)
Report (A5-0084/1999) by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the decision on the verification of credential following the fifth direct elections to the European Parliament on 10-13 June 1999
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0100/1999) by Mr Virrankoski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the supplementary estimates to Parliament's budget estimates for 2000
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0086/1999) by Mr Rothley, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and amending Directives 73/239/EEC and 88/357/EEC (Fourth Motor Insurance Directive) (14247/1/1999 - C5-0027/1999 - 1997/0264(COD))
The Commission considers that the common position is a pragmatic and efficient solution which solves in a satisfactory manner the problems of most accidents involving two European parties, that is to say, those which occur inside the European Union.
I should therefore like to sum up the Commission's position on the amendments suggested by Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as follows:
Firstly, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 10, 11, 12 and 13, which will contribute to clarifying the common position.
Secondly, the main problems concern Amendments Nos 1, 2, 8 and 9, which are designed to extend the directive to accidents between two European Union parties insured by European Union insurance companies which occur in third countries.
These are only a small minority of cases and, for reasons explained during the debate yesterday, these amendments cannot be accepted at this stage and in their present form.
However, the Commission may be able to consider an extension of the scope of the directive which takes account of considerations expressed during yesterday's debate.
However, any compromise should duly identify the third countries to which the directive can be effectively extended.
Furthermore, any solution would have to avoid a conflict with third countries' legislation.
Thirdly, concerning Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, the Commission considers that the draft amendments detract from the legal certainty of the proposal and will work to the disadvantage of the injured parties.
The Commission is therefore regrettably not able to accept them.
Given that conciliation seems unavoidable, the Commission will play a full and constructive role in facilitating a compromise in order to avoid a failure of the directive which would affect all of us and be of considerable detriment to motorists visiting the EU.
Mr President, I would like to draw attention in Amendment No 13 to an important difference between the German text - which of course is Mr Rothley's source text - and the English and I believe also the French versions.
In requiring response to claims, the German text uses the word "unverzüglich", which means "without delay", whereas the English text uses the word "immediately".
That is a significant difference in terms of how the insurance companies have to respond.
I would ask that in Amendment No 13 - and I have discussed this with the rapporteur and he agrees with me - the English text should read "without delay" and not "immediately".
In view of Mr Bolkestein's statement that Amendment No 13 will be accepted by the Commission, I believe this is a very important clarification and I would ask that it be accepted.
Mr President, Mr Harbour' s interpretation is correct.
The text should in fact be translated in English as "without delay" .
For the rest, I would ask for a vote in favour.
The conciliation procedure is unavoidable. But I am highly confident that we will find a compromise on the basis of the Commission' s explanation yesterday.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0077/1999) by Mrs Hulthén, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer (5748/1999 - C5-0034/1999 - 1998/0228(COD))
As regards the Commission position with respect to the amendments tabled by Parliament I would like to confirm what my colleagues stated during the debate held in this House on Monday evening.
In particular, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 4, 9, 11, 17, 25 and 29.
We can accept in principle the second part of Amendment No 12, provided that the deadline is set at 30 June 2002, and Amendment No 15, on condition that the date for the ban on the use of virgin HCFCs is set at 2008 and that the ban on the use of recycled HCFCs is set at 2010.
We can also accept in principle Amendment No 26, provided that the text specifies that reports be sent to the Commission by 31 March each year, and Amendment No 27, subject to the addition of a reference to the Scientific Assessment Panel under the Montreal Protocol.
Equally, the Commission can accept in principle Amendment No 32, subject to redrafting of the text specifying that any essential use for a substance banned under the Montreal Protocol will also have to be approved by the parties to that Protocol.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 31 in part and in principle, subject to redrafting that makes the text clearer.
The Commission can accept the first part of Amendment No 12 and the part of Amendment No 24 that makes reference to Articles 12, 13 and 14.
Unfortunately I have to say that the Commission cannot accept Amendment Nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 28, 30 and 34, the reference to Articles 6, 7 and 11 in Amendment No 24, and the last paragraph of Amendment No 31.
I am very grateful to Parliament.
Thank you, Commissioner, and we are very grateful to you.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Report (A5-0075/1999) by Mr Aparicio Sánchez, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on a proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation (EC) on the distribution of permits for heavy goods vehicles travelling in Switzerland (COM(1999)35 - C5-0054/1999 - 1999/0022(COD))
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Recommendation (A5-0079/1999) by Mr Bodrato, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion of the agreement concerning the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or used on wheeled vehicles ("Parallel Agreement") (10167/1999 - COM(1999)27 - C5-0073/1999 - 1999/0011(AVC))
(Parliament adopted the decision)
Report (A5-0092/1999) by Mr Busk, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down certain control measures applicable in the area covered by the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the North-East Atlantic Fisheries (COM(1999) 345 - C5-0201/1999 - 1999/0138(CNS))
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Report (A5-0081/1999) by Mr Valdivielso de Cué, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council regulation (EURATOM, EC) concerning the provision of assistance to economic reform and recovery in the New Independent States and Mongolia (COM(1998)753 - C5-0038/1999 - 1998/0368(CNS))
Mr President, I would like to hear the opinion of the Commission on the amendments which we have just adopted.
I spoke at some length yesterday evening in the deepest hours of the night about Parliament's views on TACIS and I set out those amendments that we were able to accept.
I pointed out that we agree with many of the ideas underlining the amendments Parliament has put forward.
I said these would be reflected in the text.
I noted that reasons of form prevented me from accepting the specific wording now advanced in many cases, but in particular I noted that we fully agreed with Amendments Nos 4, 5, 8, 22 and 32 as well as parts of Amendments Nos 1, 14 and 19.
I should like to make one point which I hope Parliament will take in good faith.
The conclusions of the European Council at the weekend met the sort of views that were being expressed in this Parliament the last time we debated Russia and Chechnya, at the last part-session.
We have proposed a way of taking TACIS forward which does not penalise other countries and which makes a distinction between the development of democracy and human rights, on the one hand, and other programmes, on the other.
We are not talking about suspending TACIS.
We are talking about targeting TACIS on those areas of activity which we think we should still be sustaining.
It is a sensible message for this Parliament, the Commission and the European Union to be sending.
We can make this work, though as I say there are one or two problems with precise wordings that we will want to come back to.
Mr President, the Commission' s reply seems very reasonable and I have no objections.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Motion for resolution (B5-0316/1999) tabled by Ms Caullery and others, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the WTO Millennium Round
(Parliament rejected the motion for resolution)
Joint motion for resolution on the Third Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation in Seattle
(Parliament adopted the joint resolution)
Motion for a resolution (B5-0313/1999) by Mrs Jackson, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the follow-up to Parliament's opinion on genetically modified food labelling
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Joint motion for resolution on Chechnya
Mr President. I should like to table an oral amendment with regard to recital C on my behalf and on behalf of the Members with whom we negotiated this joint motion.
The German version says "in acknowledgement of" . We move that this be amended to "in the knowledge of" .
That is the only oral amendment which I wish to table.
Mr President, I raised this issue before, at the other sitting.
I do not think that we have the correct procedural conditions for voting on this motion for a resolution.
The Rules of Procedure clearly state, in Rule 115, that texts must be made available 24 hours in advance.
This is a decision for which it will be difficult to achieve a balance.
I draw your attention for example to clause f).
The very broad deadlines which follow do not allow some Members to make suggestions for amendments and I would therefore suggest that we postpone the vote on this resolution until tomorrow and that a new deadline is set, which would be an attempt at a compromise, just until the end of the day, for the presentation of proposals for amendment.
But the reality is in fact that this 24-hour rule for the distribution of texts is not being observed in many compromise resolutions.
On very delicate matters such as this one, I think that this is extremely serious and dangerous.
The point you raise is a genuine matter but the House is sovereign in terms of its own deadlines.
The easiest way to resolve this is to put, firstly, the principle of whether we move to vote, to the vote.
I would like to ask, as politely as possible, if we may interpret this vote as an irregular amendment to our Rules of Procedure?
The House is free to set the deadlines and timetables as it wishes.
No it is not!
There are procedural guarantees that have...
(The President cut the speaker off)
We are not having a debate on this.
We are moving to the vote.
We have a joint motion by five political groups.
(Parliament adopted the joint resolution)
The House has made its decision.
We are not discussing it.
(Mixed reactions)
Mr President, I wish to raise a genuine point of order.
Perhaps you could start by telling me under which Rule you wish to make a point of order.
It concerns Rule 51 and also Rules 180 and 181, Annex 6 and Annex 15 which deal with amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
This is clearly not a genuine point of order.
Rule 51 deals with written declarations.
I can see nothing on our agenda today dealing with written declarations.
Joint motion for resolution on the OSCE
(Parliament adopted the joint resolution)
(Mrs Muscardini rose to protest) President.
Mrs Muscardini, if there is a problem with the spring in your chair we will get an usher to come and deal with it.
Otherwise, please sit down.
(Loud applause)Please resume your seats.
Take your seat.
Take your seat.
Sit down!
If you are not prepared to take your seat I will ask for you to be removed from the Chamber.
It is as simple as that.
(Commotion in the Chamber)Take your seat.
This House wants to get on with its business.
I want, at this stage...
Oh, just a minute!
Sit down!
(More heckling)(Several Members left the Chamber)
Colleagues, this is that last vote that Mrs Green will take part in before she moves on to a new career as Chief Executive of the Cooperative Union.
I am sure, given the service she has given to this House, the whole House will wish to join me in wishing her every success in the future!
(Loud and sustained applause)
Motion for resolution on climate change
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Mr President, the point of order I am making is based on Rules 142 and 180 of the Rules of Procedure.
As President, I believe you have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure, but certainly not to contravene them, yet your decisions must be complied with.
However, I have not found any Rule that says that it is the House that can decide to derogate from a Rule in the Rules of Procedure.
You asked for a vote on the failure to comply with the deadlines and this procedure is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
Let me read Rule 19 to you: "The President shall direct all the activities of Parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in these Rules.
He shall enjoy all the powers necessary to preside over the proceedings of Parliament and to ensure that they are properly conducted."
Mr President, I too should like to make a complaint.
I have been trying to make a point of order for the last ten minutes.
It is not right of you to lump all of us sitting up here in the last two rows together and to refuse to acknowledge points of order.
I wanted to point out that the German translation was, unfortunately, lost in the commotion.
It makes no sense to turn the public address system in the House up so loud that we can no longer hear anything over our headphones.
That is my first point.
On my second point, I should like to ask that the seating arrangements be changed in future.
If you look at the seating plan, you will see that the four members of the PPE group up here in the last two rows are sitting between other groups.
It is not a very happy arrangement and it should be changed, especially in view of what has happened here today.
Mr Zimmerling, I would like to respond to your point.
Firstly, regarding your point about seating, that is a decision between the groups.
The Presidency has no say over the seating arrangements in the Chamber.
It is the groups who decide the seating.
On your first point, I agree with you, but it was very difficult to tell between genuine points of order and false points of order.
In that event I decided to try to proceed with the session rather than interrupt it.
But you are right, it is difficult to discriminate between different people sitting together.
I apologise for not noticing you earlier.
Mr President. I should like to endorse what Mr Zimmerling has just said.
In the uproar, I withheld my vote on proposed Amendment No 3 of the last resolution, whereas I actually wanted to vote against it.
I would be obliged if you could take note of that.
We will ensure that is changed.
That concludes the vote.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Hungary (C5-0190/1999)
Mr President, I asked to take the floor for the explanation of vote on the Hulthén report too.
I did not hear it announced, and in any case, it does not matter, I can have a reply afterwards.
I voted for this attuning of the institutional aspects of the European agreement between the Communities and their Member States on the one hand, and the Republic of Hungary on the other.
I would like to emphasise that this once again shows that, before proceeding to enlarging the European Union, we need to consolidate existing relations between the Member States, even political ones, after which we can consider extending them.
Even here, we find ourselves in the position of having to revise some institutional clauses in order to take into account the enlargement we have already carried out.
Grossetête recommendation for second reading (A5-0080/1999)
Mr President, the Grossetête report on orphan medicinal products responds to an important requirement. It is to be congratulated for providing an immediate although imperfect solution to this problem.
The absence of proper research into these supposedly rare diseases is prejudicial to thousands of patients.
However, this report has several shortcomings.
Firstly, it takes into account only private research and research carried out by the pharmaceutical industry, as if only these were capable of finding therapies to research medicinal products.
No support is given to public research or to non-profit-making bodies which may also be capable of finding therapies.
The second and most important shortcoming is that, although mentioned in the preamble, the text does not provide a solution for one vital problem. This involves research into diseases which are common but for which there is no market for the pharmaceutical industry, in particular diseases affecting people who cannot pay for their treatment.
This is particularly the case with tropical diseases and even malaria and tuberculosis.
No incentives for research into these diseases and no regulations are suggested which is astounding in view of the millions of deaths caused by these diseases.
Parliament and the Commission must consider this issue in the coming months because the lives of millions of people are just as important as the profit of a few businesses.
Mr President, I voted for Mrs Grossetête' s report, just like very many other Members, because it is important to contribute in every way to ensure that cures for rare diseases are found scientifically, even when the pharmaceutical industry is not involved.
Obviously, it is equally important to increase the Community' s commitment to scientific research to find cures for all types of disease.
Indeed, there are many diseases which affect mainly the elderly and pensioners and which, unfortunately, lead to millions of deaths throughout the world: I am referring to respiratory diseases and heart diseases.
We must further increase scientific research into cures for diseases, whatever their nature.
Pack report (A5-0097/1999)
Mr President, I voted for the SOCRATES programme.
The education of citizens in the European Union is very important.
I would like to stress that in this programme it is necessary to provide for those who have completed their compulsory education, therefore workers too, to have access to education, which is important for everybody' s cultural development.
Moreover, I would also like people to take into account the fact that the behaviour of States, which depend on individuals' willingness to learn and, by extension, their culture, has shown that the more educated a population is, the fewer external wars, civil wars and injustices there are in areas where culture has made headway.

I am pleased to see that we have finally emerged from the impasse reached in the discussions between Parliament and the Council on the Socrates II programme. This House has managed to remain very firm on its position during this long conciliation procedure.
The Commission' s basic proposal on the renewal of the Socrates programme dates from May 1998! It has therefore taken over a year and many meetings of the Conciliation Committee to reach agreement on this programme.
Its purpose is to encourage high-quality, general education by supporting cooperation, strengthening mobility and developing the European dimension in all spheres of education. This will supplement the actions of the Member States in this area.
I do not need to remind you of the enthusiasm generated by this programme!
It has developed the educational mobility of hundreds of thousands of European university students and lecturers, headmasters, schoolteachers, pupils and educational decision makers.
In addition, the programme has supported hundreds of transnational projects developing the European dimension and improving the quality of school and higher education, language learning and so on.
The allocation of an additional budget to renew and develop this programme is therefore justified.
This is what Parliament was proposing when it suggested an overall budget of EUR 2 billion for this multiannual programme, whereas the Council was proposing EUR 1.55 billion. After long negotiations, the Council has agreed to EUR 1.85 billion over seven years.
The Council has also agreed to insert a review clause on the financial consequences of the accession of new Member States. This will allow the financial effects of enlargement to be defined through the codecision procedure, with Parliament having an equal say with the Council on the matter.
We have also agreed on an assessment report to analyse the specific results achieved by this programme.
Furthermore, it is planned to simplify the procedures for selecting projects.
This is essential as it will prevent programmes from being held up for more than two weeks in the event of an objection being made by a Member State.
The original provisions did not specify any time limit which meant that projects could have been delayed for up to two months.
The Conciliation Committee has also achieved a compromise on how the Socrates programme will contribute to the development of a "European dimension in education" rather than a "European educational area" , as Parliament had requested or "educational cooperation" , which was the weaker wording favoured from the start by the Council.
I must say that I deplore the lack of commitment among our ministers.
This is even more incomprehensible as the concept of European citizenship must be developed among our young people and the educational system has a key role to play in this!
The experiences we have had of the Socrates action programme have been extremely good, especially with regard to the Erasmus student exchange scheme.
There have been practical problems with arrangements for those taking up exchange study places that have been organised on an individual basis, problems that we have managed to avoid with the focused student exchange programmes.
We should be encouraging cooperation among the countries of the EU in every possible way in areas that are important for our citizens, by supporting them in their acquisition of the knowledge and information that promotes active citizenship and, what is more, employment.
In my opinion, many European citizens derived immense benefit when Parliament and the Council adopted the conciliation solution.
Hulthén recommendation for second reading (A5-0077/1999)
Mr President, this time I voted against the Hulthén report.
The European Community has the delicate task of deciding how best to proceed as regards making further progress on the one hand and considering the care, health and environment of our great great great grandchildren on the other.
I therefore think that before adopting any measure, we must ascertain, by consulting scientists and experts who are constantly making scientific progress, whether it is right to continue with the ban on certain substances in the future and whether, on the basis of the research carried out by scientists, every step we take really is important.
What I mean is that we have to realise that we are not as good at predicting the future as we unfortunately think we are.
It gives me great satisfaction to welcome this proposal for amending Regulation (EC) No 3093/94 regulating the production and use of substances which deplete the ozone layer.
In my opinion, it was high time for new measures to be adopted to protect the ozone layer given the alarming figures being reported.
The depletion of the ozone layers in the stratosphere is one of the most momentous environmental problems we are facing.
There has been a 6% to 10% decrease in ozone since 1980.
The ozone hole over the Antarctic covered an area of 20 million km2 for over 40 days in 1996, and the depletion of the ozone layer over Scandinavia, Greenland and Siberia reached a record 45% level.
The depletion of the ozone layer has adverse effects on human health by reducing immune defences and increasing skin cancer. It also affects the ecosystem in a particularly worrying way.
We must react as quickly as possible, particularly as we know which substances deplete the ozone layer.
Firstly, there are the hydrochlorofluorocarbons or HCFCs.
These are used mainly in refrigeration technology and air-conditioning systems, as solvents and in the production of insulating foam. Secondly, there is methyl bromide which is primarily used for soil fumigation to combat pests and plant diseases.
It is classified by the WHO as "highly toxic" .
Thirdly, there are the chlorofluorocarbons or CFCs which are now only contained in refrigeration systems but which were originally used in the production of plastic foam, solvents and aerosol propellants. Lastly, there are the halons which are used in fire extinguishing systems, especially in critical applications, such as aircraft, where there are now harmless alternatives.
We must therefore make every effort to eliminate these substances and to use alternatives.
This is the essence of the proposal under discussion today. However, it is not as forthcoming on the timetable as we might have hoped, as noted by the rapporteur.
This is why amendments have been tabled which, in the main, have been rejected by the Council.
The latter' s attitude is truly regrettable.
The targets proposed by the Committee on the Environment can be achieved because there are alternatives.
For example, the Council proposes that the production of the substances in question should not exceed 35% of 1997 production levels by 2008.
Yet, also with reference to 1997 production levels, the Committee on the Environment demands that production levels be reduced to less than 75% by 2001, less than 55% by 2004 and less than 30% by 2008.
By 2014, the Committee demands a level below 15%, whereas the ceiling proposed by the Council is 20%.
I deplore the Council' s lack of ambition.
This is even more regrettable because it is in an area in which not only the protection of the environment is at stake, but more particularly human health!

The fight against the ever-increasing hole in the ozone layer is of major concern to the people of Europe and the world. The studies provide enlightening reading.
For example, ozone has decreased by 6-10% in 20 years. In 1996, the hole covered an area of 20 million km2 for over 40 days and a record depletion of 46% in the ozone layer over Scandinavia, Greenland and Siberia was recorded.
Yet recent studies show that the efforts made to combat greenhouse gases are far from adequate.
There is no point in compiling figures: these issues are crucial and our health and long-term survival are at stake.
Is there any need to highlight the increasing frequency of cancer and the acute immune disorders caused by this depletion of the ozone layer?
This is why we unreservedly support this proposal which sets deadlines for eliminating a range of toxic substances.
To be effective, these measures must deal with two concerns.
Firstly, they must be justified in the eyes of the people. This means that the changes which will occur in our daily life with regard to HCFCs, CFCs and halons must be correctly explained.
We must tell people why and how the EU has come to legislate in this very technical area.
Secondly, we must respect the capacities of our enterprises to adapt.
In the main, these have incorporated the environmental dimension into their product development policies.
However, we must pay specific attention to the small and medium-sized enterprises which, due to their smaller size, sometimes have fewer opportunities or facilities than others for diversifying.
With this regulation, enterprises are being confronted by new challenges which they must meet successfully and dynamically.
Aparicio Sánchez report (A5-0075/1999)
Mr President, I refer to the report by Mr Aparicio Sánchez on the distribution of permits for heavy goods vehicles travelling in Switzerland.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Aparicio Sánchez, on the work which he has done on this matter, and I would like to protest at the fact that we have not received the full text of the agreement between the European Union and Switzerland before the section on the distribution of permits, which is only one part of the whole agreement.
The Group of the Greens and the European Free Alliance has rejected the proposal to reduce the number of permits to be distributed amongst the Member States, which had been proposed by the Group of the European People' s Party.
We support the idea that taxes on heavy goods vehicles should be applied in accordance with the real level of contamination and that this revenue should be invested in the railways and combined rail/road transport and, finally, we agree with the idea of distributing the 91% of the permits which are not distributed according to an equal quota amongst all the Member States, not only in accordance with actual transport needs, but also taking into account the origin and destination, for example, of goods which are passing through Switzerland originating from airports and ports such as Hamburg, Rotterdam, Genoa or Marseilles.
I believe that this would make things easier and make the distribution of permits fairer.
Mr President, I have voted against the Aparicio Sánchez report.
The Treaty remains very controversial within Switzerland.
The chance is great that it will as yet be rejected during a referendum.
In Switzerland, the protection of the environment is high on the agenda and rightly so.
This is why, so far they have opted for the transport of goods by rail and for banning large articulated lorries on transit roads.
This is the only way of preventing more and wider motorways from being built in the Alps and of protecting mountain valley air from further pollution as a result of exhaust fumes.
This has also been Austria' s standpoint in the past.
But since it has become a Member of the Union, the Swiss are on their own.
The Union has exerted a great deal of pressure on a small non-Member State and has, in the process, set aside the internal democratic decision taking in that country.
In this way, more scope was created for a transport method which, if the environment is taken seriously, has no future.
Furthermore, the scale of apportionment is being submitted to Parliament before the latter has been consulted on the agreement itself.
In short, this proposal is not yet ripe for discussion and has unacceptable consequences for the environment and democracy in Switzerland.
If I were Swiss, I would vote against in the referendum and as a non-Swiss, I will show my solidarity by voting against.
A few years ago, the people of Switzerland decided to control the heavy goods traffic through their territory.
This kind of traffic is now strictly regulated. This has allowed the people in the Alpine valleys to choose real quality of life and is a positive measure for the environment and for the people.
Far from welcoming this effort to protect the environment, the European Union has only one objective in the bilateral negotiations with Switzerland. It wants to make Switzerland repeal its regulations on the pretext that these form an obstacle to free competition and cause European countries to be treated differently.
Actually, the EU' s goal is for profitability to gain the upper hand over ecological and social considerations.
We examined with great interest the proposals aimed at developing alternative, non-polluting means of transport such as piggyback transport.
In its current state, the report comes out firmly in favour of the use of lorries in Switzerland to the detriment of other means of transport.
As we do not approve of this goal, we will vote against this report.
Recommendation Bodrato (A5-0079/1999)
WTO millennium round
.
(EL) Events at the World Trade Organisation Conference in Seattle confirm the important and justified reactions to the way in which globalisation is being promoted.
The European Union, shaken by the resignation of the Santer Commission during preparations, pursued a policy of seeking compromise with the other major powers which was far removed from the claims of developing countries and the concerns of civil society.
The policy of the European Union needs to be fully reviewed so that it comprises and includes: the democratisation of the World Trade Organisation, support for the family farming model, mechanisms for improving the lot of workers in the Third World without damaging their productivity or trading status, environmental protection, the dissemination of technology to poorer countries, action on the international debts of weaker countries and finally, protection of the multi-cultural identity of the world from the American superpower of entertainment.
I can only agree with what has just been said.
The Seattle fiasco was far from being a victory and we can therefore make only a very modest assessment of these aborted negotiations.
Clearly, we should welcome the emergence of popular concerns in the discussions on international trade. This was due in particular to the mobilisation of the NGOs, trade unions and other associations.
Viewed from this angle, the Interministerial Conference in Seattle was a real turning point in the operation of the WTO.
Previous rounds have been conducted with the greatest discretion between well-informed negotiators taking into account only the trading interests of their countries. However, the next round, whose starting date is still unknown, must now be transparent and include in the debates all trade-related issues, namely social standards, the environment, consumer protection and culture.
In order to cope with these changes, the WTO must be reviewed.
It was not actually formed to manage so many areas but was created by nations to serve their own interests.
The new order requires an assurance that the developing and least developed countries will be able to participate fully. This was not the case in Seattle, hence their legitimate discontent.
The good intentions must now be enshrined in the operation of the WTO.
We must therefore properly examine the review of the WTO.
The European Union must play a leading role in future discussions as it is clear that it was able to act as an essential intermediary between the United States of America and the developing countries.
We must also stress the European Parliament delegation' s initiative to create a parliamentary body within the WTO.
This clearly constitutes just one element of the future reform but is one which will allow the characteristic lack of democracy in the WTO to be tackled.
The European Union must also prepare for other negotiations which will start from next year.
It was very well prepared for the WTO discussions and its position remained very consistent. It therefore did not give any ground on the agenda which it wanted to see adopted, namely a broad agenda going beyond the issues of agriculture and services to which the USA wanted it to be restricted.
However, it is on these two issues alone that discussions must start at the beginning of next year in accordance with the provisions of the Marrakech agreements.
We must therefore be very vigilant with regard to these negotiations which look like being difficult.
A final very positive point is that our negotiator, Pascal Lamy, was outstanding in terms of his clear-sightedness, his sensitivity, his knowledge and his authority.
This is an extremely positive sign for the future.
During the pre-Seattle debates, some of us in this House said that Europe should start by demanding an assessment of the previous rounds and a joint diagnosis with the developing countries, before embarking on a new round of liberalisation.
We were told that time was short and that nothing could delay the start of the Millennium Round.
Yet surely we would have saved time by beginning at the beginning. We should have been slightly more modest and slightly more receptive to the opinions of the people who are not particularly convinced by the results of the WTO or by the results of its work, given the ever-widening gap in development between North and South.
Some of us warned against an impenetrable and over-greedy WTO trying to impose its decisions and its choices on everyone, in all areas, according to its own clearly unjustified criteria.
We warned about the refusal expressed by numerous countries in this respect.
Europe should have started by demanding a revision of the organisation and its operation and a clearer demarcation of its area of competence to ensure respect for other international bodies and conventions, on the environment and social rights in particular.
We said that the WTO could no longer simply be followed without understanding the need to place the precautionary principle, cultural diversity, social rights, environmental protection and the reduction of gaps in development at the top of the agenda.
We must now consider these issues.
Seattle was a failure for those who wanted to continue charging blindly towards generalised free trade and global merchandising. It was a victory for the various branches of the popular movement, similar to the one which rejected the MAI.
A powerful protest movement raised its voice against a WTO which, through its rules and structure, has favoured private interests at the expense of collective interests.
The challenge was not against the existence of rules aimed at organising world trade or the existence of a world trade organisation as such. It was against the fact that the WTO claims to be the source of all rules, the arbitrator of all disputes and the supreme judge of tomorrow' s world.
The social movement formed by many NGOs, civil associations and trade unions has demanded a new type of globalisation, one which is not dominated solely by the logic of blind profit with no regard for people and societies.
Europe must support this movement and this new world public opinion in order to promote a different type of world economic regulation. This should be based on the redistribution of wealth and a new balance between markets and democracy and between free trade and cooperation.
Europe must promote a multi-faceted view of tomorrow' s world. It must encourage the formation of large regional assemblies which are economically and politically integrated and which allow the people to control their future, to influence globalisation and not be subject to the domination of mega-multinationals resulting from mega-mergers.
If Europe fails to become involved in this movement, in this refusal to treat the world like a piece of merchandise and in the hope expressed in Seattle, the only option left to the people who reject this destructive globalisation will be to withdraw into nationalism.
In this respect, the differences of opinion which arose on the subject of biotechnologies and which formed a potential challenge to the protocol on biodiversity are even less acceptable as they in no way corresponded to the European mandate and the position adopted by this House.
A new balance between the international bodies must be developed.
A world environmental organisation must be created with real powers.
The ILO must be made the appeal body for decisions involving basic social standards.
UNCTAD is the most legitimate framework for dealing with the issue of direct foreign investments while respecting the democratic right of countries to legislate on environmental and social matters.
As for the WTO itself, it must be brought under the control of the people.
NGOs, trade unions and parliamentarians must be able to exercise this control. Is it not natural and normal, in view of the ideas and beliefs which we all represent in this House, for the Left and the Right not to be able to completely agree on these issues?
What is the point of aiming for convergence at any price when this ends up being artificial and is achieved to the detriment of clarity in our positions?
It would certainly have been preferable for all the left-wing groups to try and speak with one voice, while respecting their plurality, and I am convinced that a united European left, whose voice is needed in Europe, could have been formed on these issues.
Yet I regret the choice of a PPE­PSE­ELDR compromise resolution which allows nothing to be learnt from the lessons of Seattle and which prevents preparations from being made for the future. I will therefore vote against this text.
I voted against the motion for a resolution for the reasons indicated by Mr Désir.
. (PT) We must draw the right lessons from the lack of results at the Seattle Ministerial Summit, which was supposed to fix the agenda for the "Millennium Round" at the World Trade Organisation.
The failure of the negotiations, which we see as something positive, is not simply the result of chance events that were more or less forced by circumstance.
In good time, we stated the need to provide a balance sheet of the effects of the Uruguay Round.
We even suggested a moratorium on the start of negotiations with a view to being able to produce this kind of balance sheet and to produce a subsequent study of the routes that international trade relations are taking.
We were thinking about the obscurity of the methods that have been followed.
The negative consequences for the world' s poorest countries were - and are - particularly obvious.
We were aware of their concerns and finally, the reason behind them.
We were also aware of the growing concern among world public opinion in general about a form of globalisation that creates inequalities and injustices because it is fundamentally determined by the rules of the market and consequently by the interests that control it.
Today, as we are aware of the failure to which I referred, the study, which we have previously suggested, becomes even more imperative, before any negotiations are restarted.
The WTO must be reformed from top to toe. It has become crucial to move towards a limitation in the power of its rules.
It is crucial that we build a serious and deep alliance with developing countries, an alliance that respects their right to economic and social progress.
It is also becoming inevitable then to envisage a new trade order - in the context of a globalisation based on progress and solidarity - which respects fundamental political rights, social progress and the environment.
The Bonn Conference was held several days before the WTO Conference in Seattle.
The frantic liberalisation of trade orchestrated by the WTO and the major industrialised countries is in total contradiction to the policies needed to protect the environment.
It is not therefore surprising that, as noted by the motion for a resolution, the Member States of the European Union have not adopted the measures needed to meet their Kyoto undertakings while, at the same time, systematic deregulation is underway in Europe.
The European Union must sort out its own problems first. Although we have regulations on local atmospheric pollutants or even products depleting the ozone layer, there is no regulation aimed at limiting emissions of carbon dioxide.
The opening of rail freight to competition which has just occurred goes against the European development policy needed for this means of transport.
GMO (B5-0313/1999)
Mr President, I voted for the proposal for a resolution and I have nothing against putting a label on genetically modified food products.
However, I would like to ask you if it would not be more correct for the European Union, that is, Parliament, to decide that if these genetically modified products are harmful, their production and trade should be banned, or if they are not harmful, they should be allowed on the market.
Putting them on the market with a label amounts to putting the phrase "harmful to health" on cigarette packets, which does not prevent anyone smoking as they do not attach any importance to what is written on the label.
Mr President, on behalf of myself and the other Labour Members, I want to point out why we voted against today.
It was in no way because of the resolution presented to this Parliament by Mrs Jackson, which we fully supported.
But we have to bear in mind that, although this resolution was only advisory, the Commission had specifically said that it would take careful account of what we said in it.
It specifically said that, whilst under the present modus vivendi this resolution could not have any binding impact upon its actions, it would be taken fully into account.
Regrettably, some Members of this Parliament have not taken up the serious responsibility that the Commission has put in their hands and have not acted sensibly, particularly with regard to Amendment No 4.
This contains labelling proposals for products derived from animals that have been fed GMOs.
This is something which is bound to happen to almost all the animal livestock within the European Union and is happening now.
The consequences would be that the vast majority of meat products in our shops would be labelled as having been derived from genetically modified organisms.
This would not give beneficial information to the consumer but simply cause confusion and create an atmosphere in which the whole issue of genetically modified organisms would take a new and more confusing turn.
It seems to me that, whilst Labour Members are fully in support of the resolution, we have to accept our responsibility and acknowledge the maturity of our position.
- (FR) I voted against the draft resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs containing genetically modified organisms, because its sole aim was to give a green light to the Commission to propose a regulation establishing that labelling indicating that GMOs are present would not be compulsory in the event that a food product contains less than 1% GMOs.
This measure would be contrary to the position adopted by the European Parliament on 14 May 1998, which requested that labelling be compulsory when GMOs are present, regardless of their percentage proportion.
Today, the Council is requesting that the Commission relax the rules on the pretext that, in certain cases, industries cannot prevent a minimal accidental contamination of their products by genetically modified material during transportation or processing.
The problem is a real one, but the solution proposed seems to me to be unacceptable, even on a temporary basis.
The true solution is not to tolerate the absence of consumer information, but rather to increase the efforts to separate genetically modified products from conventional products throughout the production process.
I maintain that labelling should be compulsory, regardless of the quantity of GMOs present in the food, even if it is minimal.
If the producer is in doubt, the following statement should be affixed: "this food product may contain genetically modified organisms" .
I must congratulate the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and particularly its chairperson, for this motion for a resolution on genetically modified food labelling.
I share the opinion given in this text that current legislation within the European Union on this particularly controversial subject does not meet the requirements of consumer protection and information.
Given the uncertainties which surround GMOs, we must be extremely vigilant and use the precautionary principle where necessary at all stages of our action.
On the subject of genetically modified food labelling, the Council has adopted Regulation (EC) No 1139/98 on foods and food ingredients which are to be delivered as they are to the final consumer, produced in whole or in part from genetically modified soya beans covered by Decision 96/281/EC, and genetically modified maize covered by Decision 97/28/EC.
The specified foodstuffs are subject to the additional labelling requirements laid down in this Regulation.
However, foodstuffs which contain neither protein nor DNA resulting from genetic modification are not subject to these requirements.
The new Commission proposal aims to fill in these gaps.
It covers the accidental contamination of a product by DNA or protein originating from genetically modified soya or maize crops.
Labelling should become compulsory as soon as a component of a product contains more than 1% of this type of substance.
As indicated in the motion for a resolution, the text proposed by the Commission is far from sufficient.
It has an overly sectorial view of the labelling of foodstuffs containing GMOs whereas this issue actually requires a comprehensive and coherent approach.
The European Commission must submit new proposals on novel foods for animals and on foods without GMOs, in order to allow the consumer to choose with full knowledge of the facts.
I totally support the demand that this regulation should contain a review clause accompanied by a deadline so that the maximum tolerance level of 1% can be lowered within 12 months.
The European Commission does not actually give any justification for this figure.
At a time when European consumers have been traumatised by food scares, we must adopt all the measures which can reassure them and give them the means to control their food.
Their confidence in the European consumer protection policy depends on this.
- (PT) As the motion for a resolution presented by Mrs Jackson states, current legislation in this field is fragmentary and inconsistent.
Consumer protection demands extremely accurate and complete information on food, including information relating to new animal feed and to the labelling of GMO-free products.
Moreover, we need to review all the legislation concerning food and products derived from genetically modified organisms in order to be able to guarantee an advance assessment of the risks, with the aim of protecting consumer health.
Thus, it is crucial that the Commission proposes new criteria for the testing and labelling of all new foods and processing aids derived from genetically modified organisms, paying particular attention to products obtained from animals fed with products containing GMOs.
It is also essential that the figure of 1% as the minimum tolerance threshold can be revised after 12 months in the light of relevant scientific and technical studies and opinions.

- I believe that consumers have the right to know when GMOs are used in products in all circumstances; this pertains not only to food consumed by human beings but also animal feed. This requires clear labelling in all circumstances.
Chechnya
The European Parliament must condemn the savagery of the Russian military attack on Chechnya, which does not strike a handful of terrorists; instead it strikes tens of thousands of women and children who have been forced from their homes in the harsh conditions of a Caucasian winter.
The European Union should support efforts by the OSCE to stop the bombing, repatriate refugees and find a political solution.


We should, however, stress that the European Union, together with the USA, are not without responsibility because they set the precedent in Kosovo, with their disdain for international organisations and for the peaceful settlement of differences and they gave cause for concern with aggressive enlargement to the east which is reflected in the rise of nationalism and violence within Russia.
Climate change

This is a major issue but I will not at this stage repeat all the arguments used to demonstrate its importance.
Instead I will just express my pessimism. Yet I refuse to give up hope because in life there is always room to act and to change things.
Today I will just mention two points.
Firstly, the pre-eminence of money is not acceptable as this allows countries which have the means to do so to buy the right to pollute from poorer countries!
This is unacceptable, immoral and criminal for the future.
Secondly, at a time when we are making great efforts to reduce pollution from new cars, we should be developing a proactive European programme for rapidly eliminating old cars which are often major sources of pollution, but excluding vintage cars.
In this area too, I believe that where there is a will, there is a way.
- I just want to say that I strongly oppose the Liese resolution on climate change as it was approved by the Parliament.
Nuclear energy has been, is and will be a very important part of decreasing CO2 emissions.
That concludes the explanations of vote.
(The sitting was suspended at 1.38 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
I give the floor to Mr Gollnisch on a point of order.
Thank you, Madam President, I will be as brief as possible.
In a spirit of appeasement and without wishing to cause any controversy, I want to return to the incident which occurred at the end of voting time. This concerned the point of order which I raised based on Rules 180 and 181 of the Rules of Procedure.
What actually happened?
A Member pleaded a provision of the Rules of Procedure.
After listening to him, Mr Martin decided to move to a vote of the House.
I am not questioning Mr Martin' s extensive ability to conduct our business swiftly but, like other Members, I am questioning a general practice which seems to completely contradict the letter of our Rules of Procedure and the spirit of the parliamentary institutions.
The Rules of Procedure guarantee the rights of the minority groups.
An amendment should not therefore be made by a majority of Members present but, under the very terms of our Rules of Procedure, according to extremely strict conditions.
An amendment must be made through a proposal which must be discussed in the committee responsible.
This committee must appoint a rapporteur who must produce a report and the amendment, if adopted, can be approved in this House only by a qualified majority consisting of over half the Members.
Even then, this amendment can only apply from the opening of the next part-session.
These guarantees are absolutely essential to ensure the correct operation of this House in particular and any parliamentary institution in general.
I consider that the rather Anglo-Saxon practice, in terms of legal sociology, of submitting perfectly clear provisions of the Rules of Procedure to a vote of a majority of Members present is absolutely detestable.
This is what I would have said to Mr Martin if he had not immediately decided, without even listening to me, that the comment which I wanted to make under Rules 180 and 181 was not a point of order. I must say that he acted in a manner rather lacking in courtesy and which ignored the requirements of democracy, respect for the rights of minorities and parliamentary practice.
In my opinion, Mr Martin contravened the rules governing his position with regard to myself, the Member who spoke previously and other Members who wanted to speak, particularly Mrs Muscardini whom he refused to allow to speak and even threatened with expulsion.
Mrs Lienemann, I wish to protest very firmly but very calmly to you, and to President Fontaine and, I hope, to the Bureau about what I consider to be an abuse of power.
Mr Gollnisch, I take note of your statement which will be examined by the Bureau and which will certainly appear in the verbatim report of proceedings of this House.
Madam President, I would like to draw the Presidency' s attention to the increasingly difficult working conditions as regards Parliament' s computer services.
For two weeks, the computers and their Internet connections have been incredibly slow and, what is more, a lot of Internet sites cannot be accessed.
This is due directly to the system chosen by Parliament' s computer service, that is, to protect the MEPs and screen their access to the Internet, with the upshot being that it has been impossible to connect for a couple of weeks.
Now we have even heard that the Internet connection of the European Parliament' s computer in Brussels will be down from 22 December to 4 January: this means that the Members will, in fact, be prevented from using it, so it will be completely impossible for them to work in their offices in Brussels from 22 December until 4 January.
I think that the Presidency should urgently ascertain the reasons behind this interruption.
I would like to think that such a long interruption can only be caused by very serious, insurmountable problems.
However, I fear that it is in fact down to the bureaucratic stupidity of the computer services.
Unfortunately, since there is no other formal way to request verification, I am asking you to do this directly, in this House.
Mr Cappato, your concerns have already been voiced by other Members and even at times by the services.
Your comments will be forwarded to the IT department and the President will also look at this problem with the Bureau.
Beijing Action Platform (continuation)
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the oral questions to the Commission and Council, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the EU follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform.
Madam President, I want to begin with six words which in Danish all begin with an "m" , as in men.
The six words are: muren [der faldt i Berlin] (the Wall which came down in Berlin), markedet (the market), mainstreaming (mainstreaming), magt (power), mæslinger (measles) and menneskerettigheder (human rights).
These words are used in the following question: did the fact that the Wall came down, that the market took over and that we, as a result, seriously accepted the word mainstreaming in Beijing, mean that men stepped - if not a little into the background - then at least a bit to the side, so surrendering a little power and being willing to take care of the children when they have the measles?
Does it also therefore mean that human rights are respected so that women, like everyone else, are not discriminated against and exposed to violence?
The answer is no.
I would call attention to this situation because women such as ourselves in the rich countries of the world, that is to say also in the EU, should always remember that those who make the decisions and so who also decide the fate of our sisters in the developing countries, in Kosovo, in the Balkans etc., continue to be men and that there is therefore a risk of the results of our work and of the programmes as a whole not representing women' s wishes and needs in a balanced way.
We still need a discussion about equality and change in the EU but, above all, there must be active efforts in respect of the developing countries and in connection with aid to Kosovo, the Balkans etc. to ensure that women are part of the process and are also involved in development and reconstruction.
The stability pact, which has a shortage of women in its leadership and in which women generally are not involved, shows that there is still a lot to be done.
There is a great need for the men and women in the European Parliament to support their fellow Members of the European Parliament, together with the NGOs, in their endeavours to become involved at all levels of the societies concerned.
I would end by thanking both the Commissioner, for a speech which demonstrated her commitment, and the President-in-Office of the Council.
Madam President, the political groups are agreed on the main question here, as are those of us in the Committee on Women's Rights.
The "Beijing plus five" Conference is of major importance and the European Union has to be very well prepared to take part in the most effective way possible if it is going to have the impact that we want.
As a Parliament, we owe that to all women in the European Union and beyond - in fact throughout the world - in view of all the commitments that were made before Beijing and following it.
We need very clear guarantees that we, as Members of Parliament, will be fully involved and be taken seriously in the planning of the pre-conference before the New York meeting.
As Members of Parliament we are the direct democratic link with the people of the European Union, and the Committee on Women's Rights itself is a direct link with many women's organisations and representatives.
As was said earlier, the preparations for Seattle were a good example of the way this could be done, and I hope we will achieve this.
Mr President, we have in fact observed that, everywhere in the world, women are the subordinated sex.
In view of this fact, this Beijing Action Platform was created.
Here in the European Community too, it has been said that the overarching goal is to promote equality between the sexes in all political programmes and areas of policy.
Scarcely a year ago, we were discussing a report monitoring how the concept of gender mainstreaming had been implemented specifically in the institutions of the EU.
We noted on that occasion that the Beijing Action Platform says that a series of measures must be taken which ought to lead to fundamental changes.
We ascertained in February that this had not happened.
It was noted that there must be clearly defined goals and mechanisms of accountability, but we do not have those either.
It was noted that women ought to be actively engaged in applying and following up the Action Platform. Nor is that happening, either.
It was observed that a proper application of the Platform would also demand changes to the inner dynamics of institutions and organisations, including to such values, forms of behaviour, rules and routines of theirs which damage the position of women.
When we in the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities then looked at this issue, we saw that a lot of small steps forward had been taken in all the institutions of the European Union and that none of these had changed anything overall.
Now we are to see how the Beijing Action Platform has been implemented.
Unfortunately, the European Union is not going to be able to demonstrate any major positive successes, not even if we were to send a delegation of Members of the European Parliament.
What we are going to do is to go to the conference and affirm what was already affirmed in 1995 in Beijing.
I think that is incredibly sad.
We from this Chamber urged the Commission at that time to give priority to overhauling all its advisory and decision-making structures, so as to obtain a proper balance between women and men, and to encourage the Member States to implement fully the Council' s recommendation of 2 December 1996 to the effect that there should be a proper balance between women and men in the decision-making process.
Obviously, this exhortation still stands.
We also urge the Commission to pursue, and to work more intensively on, its strategy aimed at achieving a proper balance between women and men on the staff.
Obviously, this exhortation too still stands.
We urged the EU' s institutions to submit plans for achieving a situation in which equality was practised and pursued in their own particular activities.
This is also a demand from this Chamber which still holds.
To put it briefly, we have not taken more than the tiniest step forward.
This is something we regret but, if we are now to go to New York, we hope that we shall be able to obtain good advice from people there - that is to say, sisters from other countries - and see if anything positive has happened anywhere else.
Madam President, it is regrettable that the EU' s Conference is only taking place after the regional conferences in Europe, especially when it was unfortunately decided at these conferences to only discuss four of the twelve themes included in the Beijing Action Platform.
The four themes were violence, economics, decision making and institutional mechanisms, and this means that one of the most important themes, namely health, will only be discussed at the EU' s Conference.
I therefore hope that, in its preparations for the conference, the Commission will focus strongly upon this subject, and especially upon the issue of reproductive health.
In the Beijing Action Platform, women' s health was singled out as an area in which there is cause for critical concern.
Reproductive health was linked with human rights, while it was stated clearly that, for women, human rights include their right to have control over, and freely and responsibly make decisions about matters related to their sexuality, that is to say to their sexual and reproductive health, too.
The statement from Beijing goes further than that which was employed in Cairo in connection with reproductive rights.
There is a risk, moreover, that this hard-won victory may be jeopardised in the course of the "Beijing plus five" process, even if the pre-conference planning committee has given an assurance that the Beijing Action Platform is not open to renegotiation.
We in the EU ought to be involved in ensuring that this is in fact the case.
The European Parliament' s representative group concerned with reproductive health has repeatedly called attention to the connections that exist between the fight against poverty, women' s equality and reproductive health.
We have emphasised that reproductive health is in fact a prerequisite for the fight against poverty and is to be conceived holistically.
It is also necessary to tackle the question of HIV/Aids.
The proportion of HIV-infected women and, therefore, of the number of cases of the virus being passed from mother to child are steadily increasing.
I therefore hope that the Commission can today assure me that reproductive health will be given a prominent place at the EU' s Conference and that, in one way or another, the European Parliament will be able to participate in the New York Conference, just as it did in the arrangements for the WTO negotiations where we were in fact represented.
Madam President, Beijing 1995 was a special event.
Never before did so many countries, NGOs and journalists take part in a UN Conference.
The Beijing Declaration and the Beijing Action Platform were adopted by 192 government delegations.
The Beijing Action Platform serves as a major catalyst worldwide and in all areas policies have been tightened up, reviewed and renewed.
Despite this, the problems have not yet been solved and the emancipation policy has not reached completion.
In the ' 70s, the European Community and the United Nations placed the topic of 'women' on the map for national governments.
Attention has now waned.
It is therefore up to Europe to generate renewed interest.
I hope that we can accelerate implementation with the same energy and power which typified Beijing at the Beijing plus five Conference in June 2000 in New York.
I strongly urge the EU to maintain the momentum and keep the interests of women at heart internationally.
In this context, I would like to raise the following questions, Madam President.
Firstly, the PPE deems the importance of NGOs and of women' s movements extremely high.
They carry a special significance and strength by their activities at grass-roots level.
Decisions do not take effect automatically.
There are always inspectors required to ensure that decisions are transposed into policy and that policy is adopted.
NGOs play a key role in the mobilisation of the political will to transpose policy.
In most countries, the national emancipation support networks are also formed by the government.
Hence my question: how does the Commission see the role of NGOs, including women' s movements, and the concerted action between these and the national government networks?
Secondly, a European preparatory meeting had been planned for December 1999.
This has now been postponed to February 2000.
There is a great deal of confusion about this at the moment.
The confusion which pervaded the previous preparatory conference should be avoided.
Hence my second question: could the Commission indicate which NGOs will be invited and what will be expected from them?
Thirdly, there is an ECE Conference in Geneva in January.
The results of Beijing will once again be tabled there. Could the Commission give an indication as to what the EU' s input will be in this ECE Conference in relation to the Commission' s opinion of how much we have achieved, what hurdles still need to be overcome and what action is required?
Finally, my fourth question concerns one of the results of Beijing that agreements have been reached regarding gender mainstreaming.
This means the inclusion of emancipation objectives and the implementation thereof in regular policy.
My question is: can the Commission indicate what it intends to do to 'mainstream' the results of Beijing and those of New York in the fullness of time, in European policy?
Madam President, Commissioner, without doubt the fifth UN Conference on women held in Beijing was an important step on the road towards equality of the sexes, culminating as it did with the surprising agreement by the representatives of all the UN countries to a joint worldwide platform for action.
Five years on, we need to take stock, evaluate any progress or reversals which have been made in the twelve areas of action, take any corrective action needed and lay down policies which will allow us to achieve the objectives established in Beijing.
The European Union, or rather the European Parliament, must not just be present during this procedure; it must make a decisive contribution, both to the evaluation of the five years of action and to future plans.
It is a fact that, in comparison with other parts of the world, such as Afghanistan and Kuwait, where millions of women are still deprived of fundamental human rights, women in Europe lead a privileged existence.
It is true that a great deal of progress has been made in all areas in the Union and, if we look back at our achievements during the 20th century, we should perhaps be celebrating the huge victories which women have achieved.
To mention just one of the many victories: education, where women surpass men, both in numbers and in achievement, at almost every university in the European Union.
The European Parliament and the Union have made a decisive contribution in promoting equal opportunities.
The application of the Amsterdam Treaty, action programmes and mainstreaming have strengthened European policy significantly.
However, despite the progress made, serious problems of inequality and discrimination against women still need to be resolved: higher unemployment, violence, sexual exploitation and, above all, the exclusion of women from the centres of policy and decision making.
In view of the forthcoming UN Conference in New York, we need to speed up the European Union' s preparations if we really want to make a fundamental contribution to pre-conference planning and to the conference itself which is commensurate with the prestige of the Union.
I was pleased to hear the Commissioner and the Presidency representative this morning express their intention and commitment with regard to the organisation of the European conference and participation in the pre-conference planning for the Beijing plus five Conference in New York.
Madam President, I am to give the speech which should have been made by my fellow Member, Geneviève Fraisse. She joins the protests made by Mrs Theorin this morning.
I am pleased that the European Commission feels responsible for following up the Beijing Conference.
Yet we need precision in order to ensure effectiveness.
The same applies to the situation of women today, as much in terms of equality - education, citizenship and employment - as freedom - habeas corpus, the fight against violence and the trading of women.
We must therefore be precise.
In order for this European meeting to be successful and not just the scene of some fine words, the following conditions must be met.
A European conference may be held in parallel with a UN meeting if, and only if, this works to produce an internal European policy and demonstrates a common determination within the UN dynamic.
The Finnish Presidency must be thanked for having identified nine indicators for assessing the access of women to decision making.
Would it not be judicious to generalise these quantitative methods?
Gender-based statistics must be provided in all areas.
Additional indicators must also be identified to measure the situations of inequality in fields other than politics.
Could we not also comprehensively assess the means which Europe, as such, has had for several decades to develop equal opportunities, particularly in terms of compatibility between family and professional life, and to combat all violence against women?
Without any common indicators, no serious assessment can be made of the measures taken by the Member States.
The conference in February 2000 could have this specific and formative policy as its objective.
The future enlargement of Europe, confirmed by the Helsinki conclusions, poses the problem of the applicant States respecting the requirements of developing equal opportunities and promoting women' s freedom.
In these countries as elsewhere, the role of the NGOs, particularly since Beijing, has become indisputable.
The Commission must be a capable participant in the work undertaken by these associations.
Madam President, the 1995 World Conference on Women has given the worldwide fight for freedom and equality for women a shot in the arm.
I would like to briefly outline three milestones.
Firstly, the right to sexual self-determination has been recognised as an inherent component of the human rights of women.
Secondly, it has been established that the argument of cultural identity cannot justify the on-going suppression of women.
Thirdly, it has been stated that women' s policy is not about fancy things for women and a place in the sun, rather the gender dimension should be added to all policy-making decisions.
These achievements, most of which I have listed, must be translated into concrete action.
National governments carry most responsibility here and their commitment must be assessed.
But hang on. What about the European Union?
How is the common position on the follow-up to the World Conference on Women determined?
How can the European Parliament carry out its task in this respect?
The conference which the European Commission will organise next February can only help form opinion, it cannot determine policy.
Under the rules of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, under which, indeed, the Member States coordinate their action in international organisations, initiative and power of decision lie entirely with the Council, in practice a small group of specialist officials who have the natural tendency to focus on their own mutual problems.
I dare say this because I belonged to such a set-up myself for years, namely during the Beijing period.
Such bodies move in the twilight zone of secret diplomacy.
Openness and political responsibility, however, should be top of the agenda.
This is why I ask the Presidency, by referring to Article 32 of the Treaty on European Union, to brief Parliament as fully as possible, but mainly also to consult Parliament in time.
"In time" in this case means in any event before the so-called "preparatory conference" , to be held between 3 and 17 March in New York, because we are probably too late already for the ECE Conference in January.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities of this Parliament has the explicit responsibility to monitor the follow-up and implementation of international agreements, such as the Beijing Action Platform.
This Committee cannot wait to give its input.
It would preferably do this on the basis of tangible, current information and in a constructive dialogue with the Council and the Commission.
Talking to a brick wall is, after all, not very productive.
This is why I somewhat regret that, because of the strange set-up of this debate, we are having to make do without the Finnish Presidency.
Madam President, here, at the end of the debate, I just want to say that I do not think it has been negative but that it has been very realistic indeed.
It has been clear-sighted, and we have shown where the problems lie. There is a clear consensus between the Commissioner, who is dealing with these questions, and Parliament' s Committee on Equality.
The Commissioner has emphasised Parliament' s position and Parliament' s important role and said that the action plans are inadequate, that these must be developed further and that a clear political stance is required.
I believe we should see this as being very important indeed.
May I just warn against the Commission and the Council confining themselves to just four areas when they now produce the concrete programme following the Beijing Conference. I say this after 20 years' experience of the United Nations.
As soon as you begin to unpick any of the twelve points we laid down in Beijing, you have also begun to dismember the whole of the Beijing document.
It is therefore incredibly important that the EU should have a very clear policy and that all twelve areas of policy carry due weight.
It is all twelve areas which have to be established and for which action plans have to be prepared, and not merely three of these.
Otherwise, the whole of our Beijing document might be forfeited.
I want to say as well that we have also quite rightly demanded that it should be possible for the Committee on Equality and the women in Parliament to also be present at the conference which is to take place in New York in June.
Just as representatives from Parliament participated in the WTO Conference, the women in Parliament ought also to be involved in this one.
Allow me finally to turn to the men here.
Do not see this as being something especially for the women.
Do not look askance and with irritation at the fact that women are raising those problems which, right around the world, are problems faced by women.
See it as an important task for you, as our male colleagues here in Parliament and as our male colleagues in the Commission, to accept your responsibility and ensure that these questions are raised to such a high level that they also become real issues in the national parliaments and the national governments and in the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Madam President, I should like to thank all the lady MEPs who took part in this debate.
There is no doubt that the Beijing Conference continues to have a widespread effect, as we see every year.
I think that, when we make our first evaluation in June, apart from the negative conclusions which we will draw on the basis of statistics, numbers and data on the situation of women at worldwide level, we shall also draw some positive conclusions on several developments worldwide.
I shall try to reply specifically to all the questions which have been asked.
Following the Beijing platform and the commitment of the 189 countries to the platform, there have been three levels of action as far as our region, the European Union, is concerned: first, at Member State level, secondly, in the form of political strategy at European Union level and, thirdly, at the level of European Union policy vis-à-vis developing countries.
Conclusions have already been drawn at all three levels and the planning will shortly be presented.
All three are particularly important.
However, I wish to stress, as certain speakers have said, that the commitments to the Beijing platform are mainly binding on the Member States, they are mainly binding on governments, with the European Union coming in at a second level with a horizontal strategy.
What are we doing and what procedures have been programmed?
We have three events on the agenda before the conference in June: the Economic Commission for Europe, which will meet in January, the European conference on the Beijing issues, which will be held in February, and the meeting of the Women' s Committee of the UN, which will be held in March.
We must combine these events in the best possible way if we are to have an efficient presence in June.
First, as far as the regional conference is concerned, it is most important that we arrive at specific, unanimously accepted results which will be discussed and taken into account at the February meeting of the European conference.
Who is attending the European conference in February?
First, the European Parliament, of course, then the non-governmental organisations and, as the question was asked, allow me to say here that the women' s movement and non-governmental organisations have played, and continue to play, an exceptionally important role and have acted as a real driving force behind the policies formulated at European level, together of course with various services from the Commission, the Member States and the Presidency.
During the preparations - you already know about the committee to which I referred - the twelve areas of interest selected at Beijing will be discussed.
As Mrs Theorin pointed out, we are not able at this stage to select four or five areas, given that we are required by the Beijing platform to give equal priority to the twelve areas but we could, of course, focus our attention on the fifth action programme when we discuss the selection of priorities at European level.
These twelve individual areas of interest will be examined in the following groups under the general heading of "mainstreaming" : gender issues in development policy, in other words, how sexual equality intervenes in all cooperation agreements between the European Union and developing countries, the involvement of women and human rights.
There will be a horizontal and vertical link between these groups and the twelve Beijing areas of interest.
The results and the extent to which we agree and take a common European Union position at the June conference is vitally important.
Since certain parallels have been drawn with Seattle, I should like to remind the House that the institutional framework is not the same, nor does the Commission have the same institutional role in New York and at the Beijing Conference as it did in Seattle. However, provided that the political will is there, nothing prevents the Presidency, the Commission and the European Parliament from collaborating and joining forces during the six months up to June.
I, of course, give my word that the Commission will not only collaborate continuously and provide a continuous flow of information but will also accept proposals and studies from the European Parliament up to the very last day.
I believe that by June we will be able to find the final formula which, as you know, is not based on a Commission decision or even really on a Council decision, because it is a matter which comes under the auspices of the United Nations Organisation and participation is at national level. However, I repeat that there is the political will and the political conditions are in place for us to proceed jointly, given that we have totally concurring views on numerous matters.
Finally, I should like to make one last comment: movements, political initiatives and campaigns can often play an extremely important role.
I would like to single out the last initiative of the Women' s Committee on the strategy against violence.
It is interesting how a simple movement, a simple idea can take on huge proportions and catch the public imagination.
I think that the European Parliament could act in this area and the Commission is ready and waiting to support such campaigns or initiatives at worldwide level, provided that they relate to the matters to which you have already referred.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Ban on British beef and veal
The next item is the Commission statement on the follow-up to the French Government' s decision to uphold the ban on British beef and veal.
I would like to begin with a word of apology on behalf of my colleague David Byrne.
Unfortunately, owing to the cancellation of the morning flight from Brussels to Strasbourg due to exceptionally adverse weather conditions, he is not able to be here in person.
I will therefore speak to you instead on the important issue of the Commission action in relation to the continued refusal of France to lift its ban on imports of British beef.
Commissioner Byrne will, however, be arriving in Strasbourg later this afternoon, and will be in a position to take any questions when he speaks on the draft regulation on the labelling of beef products.
He will also be happy to meet interested Members of Parliament individually or as a group to discuss the issue further.
In these unavoidable circumstances I am only in a position to deliver Commissioner Byrne's script on his behalf.
The Commission yesterday, as you are already aware, adopted a decision to issue a formal reasoned opinion to the French authorities over their continued refusal to lift their national restrictions on imports of British beef.
The French authorities have five working days to reply to this letter.
In the absence of a decision to lift the ban, the case will be filed with the European Court of Justice.
The failure to resolve the dispute in an amicable manner is a huge disappointment to the Commission.
I think it fair to add that it is a disappointment to all the parties concerned, given the huge efforts that went into finding a solution without recourse to legal action.
The Commission has always made clear its preference to solve this dispute without legal intervention. This approach is in the interests of all parties.
I would add that it is especially in the interests of the parties most affected - British beef producers.
The reality is that legal action to lift the ban is likely to be a lengthy process, very much a second-best solution as compared to an amicable agreement.
The Commission's efforts focused on establishing that the original decision to lift the ban on UK beef posed no threat to public health.
The decision was based on a series of important safeguards which were firmly rooted in scientific advice.
They also followed the orientations of the European Council in Florence in June 1996 on the procedures, timetable and safeguards required to lift the ban.
Unfortunately, the French authorities, on the advice of their National Food Safety Authority, AFSSA, were still unprepared to lift their national restrictions.
The Commission took the precaution of referring to its Scientific Steering Committee these concerns for an opinion on whether they called into question the decision to lift the ban and the terms of the date-based export scheme in particular.
The unanimous opinion of the SSC that there is no need to review the decision to lift the ban on UK beef exports was hugely reassuring in this respect.
Unfortunately, however, this reassurance did not prove sufficient to allow the French authorities to lift their ban.
Efforts have subsequently focused on additional reassurances and clarifications on the provisions of the date-based export scheme.
These efforts led to the agreement between the UK, France and the Commission on a memorandum of understanding on 23 November, which provided the reassurances and clarifications required.
It is fair to say there was an expectation that this memo would prove to be the key to lifting the French embargo.
The opinion of AFFSA on the memo, however, again did not prove sufficient for the French authorities to lift the ban.
On 9 December they officially informed the Commission of this decision. This, in turn, has led the Commission to adopt a reasoned opinion yesterday.
There have been criticisms that the Commission's efforts to resolve the dispute in a diplomatic manner were a waste of time and effort.
The argument, instead, is that the Commission should have immediately resorted to legal action.
These criticisms are unfounded, and are indeed dangerous.
As I pointed out earlier, they are especially contrary to the interests of the most affected party, British beef producers.
These criticisms also ignore the very determined action the Commission has taken to uphold its treaty obligations to ensure compliance with Community law.
In effect, the Commission has adopted a carrot and stick approach: the carrot was the very intensive effort to bring the parties together and to get them to agree a solution through negotiation.
The stick, on the other hand, was to take action when it was clear that these efforts were not proving sufficient.
It is useful to bear in mind that the Commission's letter of formal notice issued on 16 November allowed a period of only two weeks for reply, rather than the normal two months.
Similarly, the reasoned opinion adopted yesterday also allows five days for reply rather than the normal two months.
In effect, therefore, there has been no slippage in the legal calendar in ensuring compliance with the decision to lift the ban on exports of UK beef.
The intervening period has also served to provide much-needed reassurances and guarantees that the original decision to lift the ban was soundly based.
In particular it has established that the scientific basis for lifting the ban was sound.
I am sure that if we are ever to find an amicable solution to this dispute, which I hope can still be found, it will have been due to the efforts which took place over the past several weeks.
Thank you for your attention.
Once more let me apologise on Commissioner Byrne's behalf that he is not here in person, but he will be available to take questions later.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Madam President, I should like to make a point of order and table a motion.
We in the European Parliament have asked time and again for the debates held here to be held in the presence of the competent Commissioner.
We understand that Commissioner Byrne has been held up by transport problems and that Commissioner Monti has read the Commission' s opinion.
However, I consider it absolutely necessary that the competent Commissioner should hear what Members have to say before being given the opportunity to reply, since otherwise the debate which we wish to hold does not in fact take place.
I should therefore like to move that we adjourn this debate and begin the debate on competition, as suggested, so that the Members concerned with the beef question can speak in the presence of the competent Commissioner.
I therefore move that this debate be adjourned now and that we proceed to the next item on the agenda.
Madam President, I should like to add to that.
I thank Mr von Wogau for his motion on a point of order.
We have learned that the Council passed a decision yesterday evening.
I deliberately repeat: passed a decision to postpone labelling for one year, before Parliament has formed an opinion or made a decision on the matter.
I move that the Council representative also be present at the debate.
Madam President, it distresses me greatly to have to contradict Mr von Wogau and it perhaps distresses me even more to have to contradict Mr Goepel, but let me take the formal part first.
The formal part is that we agreed and decided on the agenda this morning.
Mr von Wogau, you are a great stickler for procedure, even more so than I. I am perhaps on occasions somewhat more relaxed, which is why I think it is important that we keep to this agenda.
The second argument is that, apart from the fact that Mr Byrne will probably arrive at any moment, we should be clear Mr von Wogau - and this is a fact, as you well know - that nothing which we say today will come as a surprise to Mr Byrne.
We can always ask Mr Byrne questions afterwards.
As to the first part of what you said, Mr von Wogau, I would ask you to have a little respect for Members' engagements, i.e. the engagements of those of us who have perhaps put off other things in order to be present here and the engagements of other Members who have not yet had time to prepare for a different debate.
Now to what Mr Goepel said.
Mr Goepel, as to what the Council is doing, allow me to say to you quite plainly that that is the second part of the debate which is to follow, namely the report by Mr Papayannakis on beef labelling.
What the Council is doing is a matter of indifference to me.
This Parliament has the right of codecision on this proposal.
This Parliament has the right to decide alone.
If the Council thinks it should be present, fine.
If the Council does not think it should be present, so much the better, because we shall take the decision here which we consider to be right; if necessary, we may even go to the European Court of Justice and then decide.
Then we shall consider how to deal with the Council.
I do not need a Council representative here in order to tell them that I think they are undemocratic.
We can say that afterwards in the debate.
I think it is important that we proceed with the agenda as it now stands.
Madam President, I am more distressed to have to disagree with Mrs Roth-Behrendt than she is to have to disagree with Mr von Wogau.
There are precedents for delaying the debate for some period of time.
Commissioner Monti will remember that on one occasion in the last Parliament he had to come in when a debate had already begun, because of transport problems.
These are problems endemic in our meeting in Strasbourg in the way we do.
It is a good week for this point to be brought to our attention.
I would like to support the suggestion that this full debate takes place in the presence of Commissioner Byrne.
I mean no disrespect whatsoever to Commissioner Monti, but Commissioner Byrne has been the honest broker in this terrible dispute from day one.
We need to have him here when we attempt to reach some conclusion on it.
I too believe that we should not hold this debate without the relevant Commissioner here.
It is far too important.
We want the debate settled, we want the Commissioner to act, but we want him to act having heard all of the debate and not on the basis of information passed on second or third hand.
We must adjourn the debate until the Commissioner is here.
Unfortunately, Mr Whitehead has stolen my line.
I totally agree with him that if a Commissioner, with today's modern transport methods, cannot get to a meeting in time we should be holding all our part-sessions in Brussels.
However, I would like to move on to the point made by Mr von Wogau and also Mr Goepel' s very important point.
The suggestion that Council may have taken a decision already without Parliament is particularly important.
I am not sure about that.
I have the conclusions here from the Presidency and the Council meeting.
When the Commissioner arrives, I would like to have a clear statement from him saying whether or not the Council has taken a decision on beef labelling.
Otherwise, there is no point at all in our debating it and making fools of ourselves.
Madam President, I would just like to say that this question of the labelling of beef, in political terms, is one of the most sensitive issues in relation to agricultural and agro-food policy.
Therefore, it is unthinkable to hold a debate on such a delicate issue without the Commissioner responsible being present.
It makes no sense!
It is a question of respect for the issue and for European consumers.
I support the appeal made by Mr von Wogau but I would also like to elaborate on the request made by Mr Goepel, because he has made a very interesting constitutional suggestion, namely, that the representative of the Council should speak in connection with the Papayannakis report.
I would like to support that and I hope that the Council, which, under the Finnish presidency, has professed to be as open, transparent and communicative as possible with the Parliament, takes up this suggestion.
Last night, I understand, the Agriculture Council not only adopted a position on the Papayannakis report resolution, which it was rather beforehand in doing - but it also, I believe, altered the legal basis of the text on which Mr Papayannakis drew up his report.
We would like a full explanation of that, but it makes sense to have it from the Council, which carried out this decision, rather than from the Commission, which was, I suppose, only a spectator.
So please could we put off this debate on the French beef ban, and could we also make sure that the Council speaks in the Papayannakis report?
Madam President, it is never too late, as they say.
I have here the text of a decision made by the Agriculture Council.
The Council is therefore making decisions and, apparently, deftly transferring the responsibility for these to Parliament' s Committee on the Environment.
This is very interesting.
We had a rather confused debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and we are having this debate here today.
The Council claims that, as soon as we wanted to make amendments, it distanced itself and went down another route, in league with the Commission.
It even says in its decision that it believes that the Commission has another proposal to make which will circumvent Parliament and lead the Commission and Council to decide on their own.
All this appears in the document which I have here.
We clearly need an explanation because you could say that the debate on my report is pointless if the Council is allowed to decide what it wants.
The Council should therefore be here.
I am not sure whether we have the power to force its presence.
The possibility of an agreement certainly exists, but we need the Council here in order to find out.
I have a proposal to make.
I have just learnt that Commissioner Byrne will not be here for at least another half an hour.
We therefore have two options. We either continue the debate started in his absence or, and this is what I suggest, we adjourn the item we have started to discuss until 9 p.m.
I will put this proposal to the vote and everyone must decide with full knowledge of the facts. Either we keep to the agenda or we resume at 9 p.m. to debate the Council' s statement.
Mr Papayannakis, your report will, of course, follow this statement which will therefore inevitably be later this evening.
Madam President, you are holding my nightlife to ransom! However, as it is for a good cause, I accept.
I am only suggesting 9 p.m. because it is traditional. I believe the Rules of Procedure state that when a joint discussion involves three reports, as is the case with the von Wogau, Rapkay and Jonckheer reports, we must continue to the end of the discussion.
I am in no way trying to cut short the debate, but I must ensure that our Rules are respected.
As my proposal seems to have caused as many reactions as if I had not made one, I suggest that we resume the points of order.
Madam President, I take exception to the fact that a Commissioner arrives late for a meeting in Parliament, never mind where it takes place.
We did not choose to be here in Strasbourg.
In my opinion, if he is half an hour late, the debate should start then.
I find it in any case unacceptable that he is late.
I would like to address my second point to Mrs Roth-Behrendt of the socialist group who referred to the fact that we should start as we would all be making similar points in any case.
I am from the Group of the European People' s Party.
We are not a record which you play over and over again.
We hold original views and our input will bear witness to the fact that our ideas are clear and that we act on current situations.
Madam President, I fear that we may waste a great deal of time on this debate on a point of order.
I moved, quite clearly, to adjourn this debate and to resume it after the debate on competition.
We have heard at least one speaker in favour and one speaker against.
We know the arguments.
I should now like to move to put it to the vote.
Madam President, I raised a point of order some time ago.
According to the original agenda, the competition reports should now follow.
The order of this agenda was specifically amended by the Conference of Presidents in order to give Commissioner Byrne the opportunity to attend.
That was why the original agenda was amended on Monday.
As he is not yet here, I urge the House to deal with the competition reports.
Commissioner Monti has been here for some time.
He can deal with Mr Byrne' s reports in this regard.
I therefore support the motion.
Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that it was the Conference of Presidents which suggested the change to the agenda.
This change was approved by Parliament on Monday.
It is therefore as a result of this vote that we have this agenda for today.
I think if we go on for a few more minutes then these points of order will get Mr Byrne here in time for the debate.
If we have to adjourn and take up another subject, we should have an urgency debate on transport to Strasbourg!
It is quite intolerable that this House should be messed around by Commissioners who are unable to come here to respond to debates, particularly when, as we have already heard, the agenda has been changed to suit their convenience.
That is not acceptable, and with the greatest respect to Commissioner Monti, he is not in a position to answer this debate because, for example, when I asked Commissioner Byrne in the Committee on the Environment whether it would be possible not to waste a lot of time on legal procedures but simply go straight to a legal injunction, he said that would be possible.
That was not in the statement we heard from Mr Monti just now.
I want Mr Byrne to be here to explain the position with regard to injunctions.
That is not possible if he is not here.
We should adjourn - if we have to move beyond the competition debate that is fine, but we should not have to wait until 9 o'clock because of the incompetence of whoever is responsible for the travel arrangements of Commissioners.
Madam President, if this is a question of legal competence, then Mr Monti is as competent as Mr Byrne to give the Commission' s collectively decided opinion.
If this is a question of scientific competence, then Mr Byrne is as incompetent as any scientist who knows nothing about prions.
We know nothing about these particles.
If this is a question of good sense, then it involves French consumers not wanting the few kilos of British meat in question and discussions will make no difference.
So this must be a question of psychoanalysis.
The British Members are upset.
The quicker they are able to vent their feelings, the quicker we can start the psychotherapy by listening to them and the quicker they will be able to calm down.
We should therefore start the debate straightaway in order to calm them.
Mr Byrne has left the airport - I assume that is Strasbourg airport - and is on his way here.
Therefore under Rule 146, 32 Members can set the specific time and date when this debate should resume.
I am therefore proposing that the debate should resume at 4.45 p.m. today, and I would ask 32 Members to support this.
If they do, then that ends the matter until 4.45 p.m.
I suggest that you decide on the proposal which has just been made.
Do 32 Members support this proposal?
(Parliament gave its assent) (The sitting was suspended at 4.15 p.m. and resumed at 4.45 p.m.)
Ban on British beef and veal (continuation)
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Commission statement on the follow-up to the French Government' s decision to uphold the ban on British beef and veal.
Madam President, I refer to Article 142, paragraph 1 of our Rules of Procedure, under which an infringement of the Rules of Procedure can be pointed out to the President.
In this case it is Article 147 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that a motion to suspend must be put to the vote.
You have not allowed us to vote.
You declared the vote of 32 Members to be a vote.
That was a clear infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
We cannot allow our Bureau to push us around whenever we have a tight agenda.
Mr Langen, I acknowledge my mistake.
You can put it down to the fact that this is the first time I have acted as Vice-President.
I should have put it to the vote.
However, it appears that the House would probably have confirmed the decision which was taken.
Nevertheless, I apologise for this flouting of the Rules of Procedure and I will try not to do this again.
Commissioner Byrne considers that, as his statement was read by Commissioner Monti, we can immediately start the debate at the end of which he will answer any questions.
Madam President, it is now 18 weeks since the European Commission ordered the lifting of the ban on British beef; 18 weeks during which time France and Germany have prevaricated while blatantly defying the law; 18 weeks during which naive attempts at appeasement by the Commission and the hapless UK government have been rebuffed in circumstances which have caused deep humiliation to both; 18 weeks during which British beef farmers have continued to suffer catastrophic losses, exacerbated by the titanic efforts of the French government to blacken the good name of British beef internationally.
The time for dithering and delay is now past.
In the face of clear evidence that the French government has engaged in a devious game of cat-and-mouse with the Commission and the UK government and clearly never had any intention of removing the ban on British beef from the outset, they must now be held to account.
They must be made to answer in the European courts and the procedure must be fast-tracked to ensure compensation is paid to the British beef industry, not only for the loss of trade to France, but also for the loss of our trade worldwide as a result of the damage done to the reputation of our high-quality products.
Can I also deal with the red herring that Prime Minister Jospin has introduced into this debate.
He claims that last October he made an offer to Prime Minister Blair to lift the ban on grass-fed Scottish beef.
Let me say this to Prime Minster Jospin: all British beef is safe.
It has been judged safe by the European Commission and by the Scientific Steering Committee.
Under the chairmanship of a French scientist, that committee unanimously approved the safety of British beef and unanimously rejected the French position.
It is preposterous, therefore, for Mr Jospin to endeavour to drive a coach and horses through the European directive and the British date-based export scheme by introducing his own conditions.
It is Mr Jospin who is in the dock and it is not for those who break the law to attempt to revise the rules.
Can I also ask the Commission what action they intend to take against Germany?
The German Government has been content to hide behind the French coat-tails throughout this dispute, blaming the intricacies of their federal system of government for the delays in lifting the ban in Germany.
I would remind this House that the German Government was able to introduce the ban on British beef in a matter of hours.
It is therefore quite unacceptable that they continue to apply this illegal ban 18 weeks following the directive ordering that the ban should be lifted.
On my final point I would point out to this House that on an issue of this crucial importance there are very few Socialist Members sitting here taking part in this debate - and that is a disgrace.
Madam President, at this moment in time, Socialist members have been debating BSE far longer than most of you and, in all events, far longer than Mr Stevenson, but that is just a brief rejoinder to the last comment.
As chairman of the last BSE committee, I have probably spoken more frequently in this House and in other fora on BSE than most of you since 1996/97.
I believe therefore that many of you will already have heard much of what I have to say here today from me on previous occasions.
Permit me nonetheless to summarise the background to the lifting of the export ban.
The lifting of the export ban on British beef followed long scientific debate, long reports and numerous inspection visits to the United Kingdom and was approved by this Parliament.
We now have a legal situation where there is an internal market and free movement of goods.
Only where there is scientifically substantiated and provable cause for concern can the free movement of goods be excluded and suspended in order to protect consumer health.
This applies to all Member States and it also applies in other respects.
However, as this scientific proof always takes the form of an up-to-date expert opinion based on the information available, we must all take an interest in the latest scientific knowledge.
Like most of you, I am no scientist.
I must refer to the expert opinions of the scientists and I am interested in any new information which may cast fresh light on the situation.
I was therefore most interested and curious to know what new information was available.
Unfortunately, no new information has come to my attention either from France and other Member States or - and this remark is addressed directly at Mr Stevenson - from Germany.
The reaction is therefore quite clear and unequivocal.
Commissioner Byrne and the Commission have chosen the only correct reaction.
Member States call time and again for legal security in the European Union, Member States call time and again for everyone else to respect the law when their own interests are at stake.
And so there should be no exceptions for them either and there should be no arbitrariness in the European legal systems.
Nonetheless, it would have been nice if the Commission had made the BSE test evaluated several months ago compulsory, i.e. if they had made it a duty incumbent upon all Member States.
That would have given some Member States additional security and additional reassurance and all the Member States would at last obtain a clear and unequivocal picture.
Then we would finally know exactly what the BSE situation is.
My question therefore to Commissioner Byrne is this: when will we have a proposal on compulsory BSE testing in the Member States?
Apart from BSE testing, we also need a record of provenance.
We shall shortly be debating the Papayannakis report on beef labelling.
This, too, would simplify and improve the situation of the Member States and help to protect consumers.
Here too, and I say this loud and clear, the Member States have been dragging their feet.
They have been dragging their feet since 1997 and the Commission has also failed to take the necessary action.
That is inexcusable.
Allow me to conclude with a few words on consumer protection as a whole.
I have been in the European Parliament for 10 years, during which most of my time has been taken up with environmental policy and consumer protection.
I do not always have the support of the Member States, despite hearing so much from them about consumer protection.
May I remind you of the legislation on product safety and product liability, where I tried to obtain legal security.
However, I was ignored by countries such as Germany, France and others when it came to protecting victims of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in the longer-term.
I would have wished for more consumer protection and more support than I mustered.
Perhaps there is now a new trend in consumer protection.
I call on the Commission and on you, Mr Byrne, to pass your homework on to the Member States.
The Council is usually pretty dozy.
All the members of the Council are usually pretty dozy.
Make BSE testing compulsory and ensure that beef is labelled with its origin, that would be a major step forward.
Madam President, Commissioner, the partial lifting of the embargo is valid law. However, it is also valid law for a Member State to take precautions to protect its people if there is a risk to public health.
What interests me in this respect, in the short time available to me, is this: if you state in this compromise, in these two recitals, that testing will be carried out and that there will be a facility or duty to label, then we must be sure that this testing and this labelling will indeed be carried out if the import ban is lifted.
There are no logistics in place for either and no results from the possible application of this testing, including in Great Britain, have been submitted.
I therefore consider it premature to step up the debate.
You for your part, at the Commission, should implement and test the measures agreed and then reintroduce them into the negotiations.
Madam President, this is not only a crisis for British farmers, it is a crisis for French farmers as well.
But above all it is a crisis for the European Union.
France has to decide whether it is in the EU or not.
If it is in the EU it must play by the rules.
In the UK our support in the European elections was very shaky.
There was a very low turnout, as was the case in a lot of Member States.
I believe that if we had an election today that turnout would be even lower because of France's refusal to lift the ban and the fact that the European Union is brought into disrepute.
The results of the Scientific Steering Committee back on 1 August ruled that British beef was as safe as any other beef and that was led by a French chairman.
I happen to believe that it is safer than other beef because we have got some of the highest hygiene standards in the world now.
The Food Standards Agency in France did not come up with any new evidence at all.
I believe it was purely a political decision by France but we must now move forward.
I would like to see a fast-track legal procedure.
I would like to see, if possible, an injunction taken out against France before the legal process has run its course.
I would like to see interim compensation and I would like to see when a fine is imposed, that high compensation is given to British farmers.
British farmers are fed up.
The British public are fed up with France refusing to lift the ban and I am sure the Commission is fed up as well.
It is about time that France obeyed the rules.
Madam President, in refusing to lift the ban on British beef and veal, the French Government has decided to face a limited and short-lived crisis with its European partners rather than risk a scandal breaking in a few months or years linked to Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease.
This decision is based on the scientific conclusions of the French Food Safety Agency which, while acknowledging that progress has been made, has identified continuing and serious potential risks, as demonstrated by the persistence of the disease.
Seattle has also affected this decision, with the growing importance of the precautionary principle and the pre-eminence of health over the market.
There is no point today in making things worse or in exacerbating Francophobe or Anglophobe feelings.
We are right to be careful.
It is the inadequacy of the guarantees on the definition and implementation of testing programmes and, in particular, the lack of European regulation on labelling and traceability, which has led France to this decision.
In addition to these elements, the efforts made in recent weeks, which no one disputes, must be clarified and supplemented in particular by the establishment of a compulsory labelling and traceability system from the producer to the consumer.
This would clearly allow the consumer to be reassured and would also combat the re-routing of products in the context of triangular trade.
Beyond this specific case, should we not be working to impose the pre-eminence of the precautionary principle over all other considerations in trade, both within the EU and with third countries?
Are the Commission and Council not using a similar approach to that of the French Government in rightly opposing the lifting of the ban on hormone-treated meat originating from the United States of America, despite the WTO injunctions?
Madam President, my British colleagues must realise that this is a scientific, political, legal and moral problem.
On the scientific level, first of all this disease is due to an unknown agent.
It is not a bacteria and it is probably not a virus, even though the German Professor Diringer believes otherwise. It is due to a mysterious prion.
Secondly, there is no ante-mortem test.
Thirdly, the disease is not disappearing despite the ban on meal.
Fourthly, acarids full of prions are being found on fodder.
This shows that the disease can be transmitted through fodder or grass and might mean that your soil is blighted forever and should not be used for breeding cattle.
For the moment therefore, science cannot settle the matter.
You have played the ball into the political court and it is therefore a question of whether trade or health takes priority.
Is selling or living more important?
The majority of the world' s countries, including your American and Canadian cousins and even your Australian and New Zealand friends in the Commonwealth, are saying that they want to live first and then sell.
Yet you are demanding sanctions and creating a legal problem.
Legally, there are two problems, the first of which is the priority among regulations.
Should we give priority to the principle of free movement or to the precautionary principle?
On the issue of BST, which does not present any danger to human health, we gave priority to the precautionary principle which we pleaded in Seattle.
The second legal problem is one of legal responsibility.
You are the guilty party because you created this disease from start to finish.
In financial terms, we assumed the risk for two years but we cannot accept this risk in terms of health.
There is also a moral or theological problem, as previously identified by Saint Thomas Aquinas, Antigone and Creon. Should human law come before natural law?
It appears that, using human law, you have created an epizootic disease and a zoonosis.
I would remind you that the latest child to be dying from your disease is only 13 years old.
Well, we do not want to die.
Finally, on the religious level, your Agriculture Minister told us two years ago in the Committee on Agriculture that this disease was due to God. As Christmas approaches, you should pray to God and hope that Father Christmas brings us a diagnostic test.
You should try to ask forgiveness from God. Yet to do this, you need to repent your sins ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Madam President, first of all, I would take exception to the previous speaker who wrongly quoted Thomas Aquinas, but this is just by the by.
We are now in the middle of a crisis which has been going on for eighteen weeks and a beef conflict between France and the United Kingdom which, as I have noticed, has taken on a suspect nationalist dimension.
It appears that we still to this day battle out national conflicts by means of soccer and beef.
Especially the latter aspect is very detrimental as this is on the back of farmers and consumers.
This is simply not acceptable.
The second point which becomes clear is that Member States appear to be unable to handle this sort of issue.
It is completely clear why this is the case because we have one internal market, we have an open market.
If we do not solve this type of conflict at Community level, then this sort of problem will emerge.
When Mr Prodi made his declaration here, he said that a food safety bureau should be set up at the earliest convenience.
I would like to find out from Commissioner Byrne when this will eventually happen so that we have a powerful and independent bureau in the European Union which can actually take action and which can adopt powers from national Member States.
The second point which has struck me in this whole political debate is that, first of all, a solution is being sought between two key Member States and that maybe after that, the Commission will be able to have some input.
I find this a dangerous tendency in EU politics.
It is not acceptable that key Member States are increasingly solving problems amongst themselves.
I also say this as a representative of a smaller Member State.
We have opted for a common market, for a common approach and there is no room for a culture in which major Member States thrash out issues amongst themselves.
In this respect, I am concerned about the Commission' s position and I would like to know where the European Commission stands and if it is actually able and prepared to take the lead in conflicts like this.
Once again, however, in Europe, we live in an era in which food in Europe has probably never been safer and the consumer' s confidence in food is actually diminishing by the day, not only in France and Germany but also in other countries, because this discussion is dragging on due to a lack of political decisiveness.
In this light, I would like to know exactly what the Commission is going to do about establishing a food safety bureau on a European scale which is independent and has far-reaching powers.
Madam President, I want to speak here today as a Member of the European Parliament, and not in terms of nationalist rhetoric.
I do not personally believe that British bluster is as exportable or as healthy as British beef.
I want to look today at the decisions which have been taken in the light of the Commissioner's earlier statement, to which very few have so far referred.
The facts on this matter are quite simple.
The decision to lift the ban followed the scrupulous adherence of the UK to the Florence Agreement.
When that ban was challenged by the French Food Safety Agency, as they had the right to do, I guess, in terms of their own remit, it was referred to the Scientific Committee, which unanimously endorsed the safety of British beef.
That was, as the Commissioner's statement says, "immensely heartening".
So what went wrong after that?
With the Commissioner's help - and I pay tribute to him, and I can share his sense of exasperation - we went into a process of negotiation when many said we should not.
The result of that was the memorandum of 23 November, which we believe was the beginning of the end of this wretched dispute.
What happened as a result of that?
We got the decision on 9 December by the French Government that it would continue with the ban; and that did come to most of us as a complete surprise.
I want to say a word to Mr Jospin, and I do so in no nationalist spirit.
I believe that his subsequent briefings on this matter have deepened this dispute in the most serious way.
Mr Jospin was a party to the memorandum of agreement, which accepted the date base scheme in its entirety.
Now he says he would take, or would have offered to take, some beef from some herds in some parts of the UK, irrespective of the date-based scheme.
That is a total misunderstanding of the position as he knows it to be.
He has also said that he would rather be crucified by British public opinion than by French public opinion.
That is a ludicrous thing for a statesman whom I have always respected to say.
The former Prime Minister of France, Mr Mendès-France said: "Gouverner, c'est choisir" - you have to make choices.
You cannot always drag behind public opinion.
Mr Blair took a risk, and I think sensibly so, in taking the route of negotiation when others argued for confrontation, crisis, boycotts and bans.
I think he was betrayed by what has happened in the wake of that, and I do not personally believe that is the way to proceed.
The alternative, if you are going to choose not what is right but what is popular, is to pursue a process of confrontation between two Member States which threatens this whole institution.
We have to be based on the rule of law, we have to be based on some form of arbitration, which allows us at the end to say: "There we are, that is the best opinion we can get. It is unanimously in one direction.
Let us endorse it".
If we do not do that we are going back to the kind of rhetoric that we have heard from one or two Members in this debate today.
Surely this Parliament and this continent have gone beyond the days of Henry V and Joan of Arc?
What we need now is a sensible way out of this situation.
I would like to end with one question to Commissioner Byrne directly.
We do not want this dispute dragging on in the courts for years.
Nobody, I think, sensibly does.
Therefore, what interim measures can he propose which would make it possible for a temporary lifting of the ban, up to the point where this can be settled between the two governments in an amicable manner?
His job is to be an honest broker. I believe he is trying to do it.
I think this Parliament should support him in that effort and should talk down those who want to widen the division between our two countries.
I very much regret that France continues to maintain its ban on beef from the UK and, as I have made very clear in previous debates here, I expect the European Commission to urgently proceed with enforcement action.
However, I also believe that political representations should continue to be made, and for that reason my SNP colleague Neil MacCormick and I remained in this Chamber yesterday rather than sulking outside in the corridors.
We took the opportunity to personally draw President Chirac's attention to the quality of Scottish beef.
Since the start of the beef crisis, SNP members here have consistently advocated that the situation in Scotland should be assessed separately with a view to a phased re-introduction of export trading.
I am challenging the Scottish Minister for Agriculture to bypass London and support the SNP's request, which I delivered yesterday to the French Government, that the French authorities study in detail and with urgency the scientific evidence, the traceability and labelling situation in Scotland; and I call upon French colleagues in this House to advocate that line with their government.
On a point of order, I really must protest.
This is an extremely important debate.
We adjourned it for the Commissioner to come here, and now we have other meetings taking place inside the Chamber.
Quite frankly, this is unacceptable.
I propose that we continue the debate. We will ask our colleagues to interrupt their confabulation which is, however, connected with the agenda problems which have arisen due to the adjournment of the current debate.
Madam President, do you want to wait until the meeting has finished here or not?
Could I first of all address my comments to the Commissioner?
Commissioner, I have attacked you vociferously on three previous occasions for not taking a decision, because I thought you were weak.
I would like now to first of all extend my thanks to you for the way in which you have at long last taken a decision and are going to take the position you are with the French.
We know that it is extremely difficult.
I actually believe that you have been - and I will use British words here, "stitched up"; and "stitched up" not only by the French.
I also think you were used by the British Government.
I look forward to seeing a quick response to your actions.
I might add to Mr Whitehead that I speak here now not just as a Member of this august Parliament but as a farmer.
It is particularly important that people understand that this crisis has affected every individual farmer, not just in France, but right across Europe.
I have with me today - and I risk being arrested, I brought them for you, Mr Byrne - two British prime steaks.
They are from a local butcher and farmer who lives next door to me, who will almost certainly not be in business by the end of the week.
I have to say, after hearing what Mr Martinez had to say, that I am deeply concerned that BSE may now be transmitted to human beings.
I would just like to add, since you are about to announce a White Paper on food safety, that, whatever people say, food right across Europe can never be 100% safe.
I would just like to suggest to Mr Martinez that last year over 20 people died from listeria in France - more people than caught BSE.
Therefore I do hope that you use objective scientific evidence when it comes to food safety, and not just a precautionary principle, which is understood under Article 30 (ex-Article 36).
I look forward to hearing your reply later on.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Monti has just told us that the criticisms made of those who sought dialogue were unfounded.
I fully share this point of view.
At this stage in the debate, I want to mention the three parties in this affair, with the first clearly being the British Government.
We should congratulate the efforts towards dialogue made on both sides of the English Channel. The efforts made on the British side since the start of the BSE crisis to improve the situation and food safety should be welcomed.
Part of the task has been completed but only part. I would cite as proof the rumour that parents are still being told that beef is not on the menu in British schools.
Confidence has clearly not yet been totally restored.
The action taken by France with others and against others must help to definitively resolve this crisis.
The second party in this affair is my own government.
What principle has France sought to promote?
The answer is the much-vaunted and much-discussed precautionary principle which we are collectively seeking to define.
We are also trying to ensure essential food safety which cannot be sacrificed to the market logic.
You may imagine that it is easy to pander to public opinion.
I believe that the decision taken by my government was a decision to be made by politicians and this is how a government must act.
I agree that governing means making choices, and so my government has made its choice.
What would all your governments have done if, following an expert opinion, your national agencies had indicated that there was still a risk?
The political authority must choose, so this is what my government has done. It has taken a political decision based on an assessment of the risk.
On the subject of agencies, I wish for one thing. We should have at our disposal the expertise of a proper European agency so that in the future the conditions for conducting this type of debate will be better.
I must inform the previous speaker that we do apply the precautionary principle in France.
Have you noticed that, following the opinion of the French Food Safety Agency, we have withdrawn some cheeses because of the cases of listeriosis?
You will remember that we had five points in the negotiations.
We are now satisfied on three of these points but we still need guarantees on the other two.
Others before me in this debate, like Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and Mrs Roth­Behrendt, have said this.
Is there any sense in testing if we do not understand its effective implementation and the application of its results?
This is what we demand of you, Commissioner.
I am aware that behind the fight being conducted by France there is also a fight going on in the interests of the British and the whole European Union.
Today in this debate, Commissioner, you are our partner in dialogue and we have four demands to make.
Firstly, you must face up to your responsibilities.
My country did not happily enter into its current position of being condemned and hauled up before the Court of Justice.
We understand.
However, your responsibility is also to effectively implement the testing and labelling without which, free movement is just an illusion.
You must also set up this food agency to which Mr Prodi is committed and which we will support in all the actions which it may take.
May I commence by extending my regret to all of you for not being here at the commencement of this debate.
I know how important it is and I had had every intention of being here.
I had booked a flight this morning, but due to the weather conditions in Brussels that flight was unfortunately cancelled and indeed the later flight I was on was also delayed.
Please accept my apologies for being late and having to have my statement on this issue read to you by my colleague, Mr Monti.
Let me now deal with the many important questions you have raised on this issue.
First of all Mr Stevenson and a number of others have raised the question about the delay in instituting the proceedings that were launched against France on 16 November.
That was the formal notice, the more factual part of the proceedings, and then yesterday the reasoned opinion was agreed by Parliament to be sent to France with a response time of five days.
Let me say this.
I am firmly convinced that the line I followed in attempting to resolve this in the manner in which I did was the correct way to proceed.
I do not have any doubts about that whatsoever.
There are many reasons for this that I have rehearsed here in the committees of Parliament before.
A negotiated settlement that is agreed between the parties is always a better settlement than the one that comes about as a result of court proceedings.
However, the charge has been made that by adopting that course of action a delay has occurred in the institution of proceedings and that by implication the court hearing will take place later than would otherwise have happened.
That is not correct.
The true position is that France's position on this situation was not made clear until 1 October.
At that time I was just short of two weeks in office.
That was the first opportunity the Commission, or rather I, had to give serious consideration to France's response to this issue.
I attempted to deal with this in the manner I believed appropriate.
For instance, having regard to the fact that I have responsibility for consumer protection, public health and food safety, my first reaction was to see if there was anything in this allegation.
Was any evidence available to the French authorities which should be examined at Commission level by the scientists in the Scientific Steering Committee?
You will remember that I asked the French authorities if they would send that evidence to the Scientific Steering Committee for further evaluation and to see if there was anything new.
They did that and the Scientific Steering Committee also asked the UK authorities if they would forward such up-to-date information as they had.
They also complied with that request.
This gave the SSC an opportunity to fully review all the evidence in this unfortunate situation. The result of that was they came up with the unanimous decision that we are all aware of.
With regard to my own responsibilities that I have just identified, I felt that this was an important first step for me to take in this issue.
The advice that I got, which I was happy to act upon, was that the beef exported from the UK under the DBES scheme was as safe as any other beef in the European Union.
Further discussions took place following that.
My belief is that the further discussions and the protocol of understanding that was reached between all parties and experts involved give further assurance to consumers in the European Union - and they are not just French - that the beef exported under the DBES scheme is as safe as any beef in the European Union.
That also was a valuable exercise.
To address the question of whether there was a delay or whether the proceedings will ultimately come to court later than they would otherwise have done in the formal notice proceeding, the first letter sent by the Commission normally requires a response within a period of two months.
In this instance that was shortened to two weeks, extended by a further week at the request of the French authorities.
The reasoned opinion, when that is sent out two months after the formal notice procedure, normally also gives a period of two months in which to reply.
These periods have been shortened by the procedure that has been adopted by the Commission.
In many respects we have therefore caught up and are no later in the proceedings than we would have been in normal proceedings.
So not only do I believe that we adopted the right course of action with the good results that came from that, but I also firmly believe that we are not in any delay as a result of taking that particular course of action.
Mr Stevenson also raises the question of the position of Germany.
My understanding is that this will be discussed in the German Parliament on 17 December.
There is every expectation that the parliament will come to the conclusion that the embargo in Germany should also be lifted.
To come to some of the issues that were raised by Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, particularly with reference to the tests that are to be undertaken: you will remember that these were among the issues raised by the French authorities and addressed in the protocol of understanding.
I said in my hearing last September that it was my intention to establish a proper EU-wide testing system for BSE to determine the levels of infectivity in various Member States.
It is still my intention to do that.
Progress has been made.
A working party has been established in my directorate-general, working in association with Member States, to come up with the procedures necessary to put this provision into place.
It is my intention to proceed with that.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and others also mentioned the necessity of putting into place labelling systems and, in particular, mandatory labelling systems.
We are going to discuss this later in the evening.
Let me just say at this stage that labelling is an issue that is focused on consumer information and consumer choice.
It is not a public health issue.
We must focus on the public health aspect of this.
That is why, in my belief, the test aspect of it is important and must be distinguished from the need for labelling.
Others asked questions in relation to the actual procedures in the Court; how quickly they can begin and when we can expect to get a result.
Like all court procedures anywhere in the world they move at their own pace because it is absolutely essential that all parties put their arguments on paper.
In litigation before the European Court of Justice not only do the proceedings take place between the immediate parties - in this instance, the Commission and France - but also Member States are perfectly entitled to intervene in those proceedings: the UK or indeed any other Member State.
The consequence of that would be that further documents would have to be drafted whereby those Member States set out their position.
All of that has to be filed in the Court, it has to be translated.
All of this takes time.
The question has been raised whether there are any fast-track procedures that can be applied in this instance.
There is an interim measure procedure and the criteria that are laid down for the application of interim measures are quite strict and quite narrow.
I have asked the Legal Service in the Commission to advise me whether the circumstances of this particular case fall within those narrow criteria.
In my view this will be, to some extent, an uphill battle but nonetheless I intend to seek advice and if I am advised that it is an appropriate way forward it will be my intention to do that.
In the event that the embargo remains in place, and the proceedings are launched next week, it will, of course, require the launching of proceedings before we make any decision on interim measures.
Equally it will be necessary for me and for the Legal Service to determine the appropriate response, having regard to the response of the French authorities to the reasoned opinion that was agreed to be sent yesterday because that in essence is a legal document setting out the legal position and I expect that the response will be in similar terms.
No final decision can be made on the issue of whether interim measures can be sought until those papers have been filed.
There is one other, very rare procedure, which is the accelerated procedure.
I have made inquiries as to whether this procedure is available.
This is a procedure whereby the Commission could apply to the Court to have the case heard in an accelerated manner - or fast-track manner.
It requires once again certain criteria to be present.
It would also require the abandonment of the Commission's right for instance to file certain documents at certain crucial stages of the case.
I have to make a judgement on whether it is worthwhile seeking to fall within those criteria if we can and, if so, whether it is a good balance to seek an early oral proceeding or whether it is better to have all the arguments on paper before the Court.
That is a judgement call that I will make after I have read the reply to the reasoned opinion that has been sent to the French authorities.
However, I should say that if I feel it is the appropriate way forward, that is the course of action that I propose to adopt.
Let me just go back to the issue of compulsory labelling and traceability that was mentioned earlier by one of the Members.
The DBES scheme itself provides for traceability. It provides by implication for labelling.
The scheme was not devoid of this requirement and therefore to approach this debate on the basis that the DBES did not require these issues to be put in place would be misleading, because it would be unfair both to the scientists who determined what was necessary to make sure that the exportation of UK beef was sound and safe and it would also be unfair to the Commission in the approach that has been adopted so far.
This scheme provides for traceability and consequently for a form of labelling.
I was also asked by a number of speakers about the progress of the Food Safety Agency and the White Paper on Food Safety.
A number of Members said, and I agree, that this appears to be the way forward in relation to these issues.
I think most of you will agree that to have a situation where scientists are disagreeing with one another on issues so important as food safety is a very unsatisfactory situation.
It is unsatisfactory from a public health point of view but it is also unsatisfactory from the point of view of consumer confidence.
This is an entirely undesirable situation.
From the beginning of this Commission you will remember that President Prodi made this an issue that he regarded as being of the foremost importance.
Before any of the rest of us were sworn in he made this a clear priority.
He asked me to deal with this.
We have been working on this in my DG since then.
The White Paper has been drafted, it has been in interdepartmental consultation in the Commission and it is now just about to be presented to my colleagues in the College of Commissioners.
I expect that to happen on 12 January.
That White Paper includes many of the issues that I have raised here and in the Environment Committee on a number of occasions but it also includes a chapter on the issue of a food safety authority.
I believe that in the establishment of a food safety authority it will be necessary to determine what competences it has.
It will obviously have a competence in the area of a risk assessment and in assessing that risk it will be necessary for the scientists employed in this agency not only to rely on their own opinions and advice, but also to liaise with the scientists in Member States, because an agency such as this - agency or authority or whatever - will have to be not only independent but will also have to liaise with scientists in Member States.
It cannot be established in such a way that its work is going to be in the form of a series of dictates issued from Brussels as to what the appropriate way forward is.
Such an agency will not have the confidence of Member States and consumers unless there is a broad degree of consultation between scientists in the European Union.
But once that consultation process has taken place and once the scientists in the Member States and in the agency have come to a conclusion on the appropriate way forward in any given situation, particularly with regard to a food scare, the opinion of the agency should stand, should be respected, should be followed and should not be challenged.
Once the consultation process has taken place there should be no need for such a challenge.
It is in those circumstances that the authority of such an agency will permeate throughout the European Union and will not only be a good authority in the area of safety and public health but will also provide a degree of consumer confidence that I believe is absolutely essential and will be a bedrock in the way forward.
I might refer just very briefly to the other issue that we have been talking about a moment ago - courts.
The hierarchical system that exists in the court procedures are such that you could not imagine for a moment a court of appeal in any one of the Member States seeking the opinion of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg under an Article 177 reference and then, having got the opinion, not liking it and saying "we will not apply it".
It is an unthinkable proposition.
Such a situation does not exist in the scientific world.
Here are in fact two areas of expertise.
One I accept is more static, or the analysis is of more static facts - that is the law, the legal process.
The other is an examination of a more evolving situation. The analogy is not a very accurate one but nonetheless it is valuable in the sense that in circumstances where it is necessary to have the evaluation by experts, whether it is in the legal world or in the scientific world, we need finally to have an authoritative voice on the issue and that is where I expect we will get that - from the establishment of this food safety authority.
I have to say that I am heartened to hear so many of you express yourselves on this subject here this afternoon and say that it is also your belief that this is the appropriate way forward.
I have been asked about the structure of this agency on previous occasions.
I am not going to go into it in detail this afternoon other than to say to you that I am aware that concerns have been expressed by many of you on the issue of the relationship between the concept of independence, on the one hand and accountability, on the other.
Of course, such an authority has to be accountable in some way to the political process, to those of us who are engaged through codecision in making laws, because we after all are accountable to the people, the scientists are not.
Risk assessment has to be undertaken by those who are qualified and expert in that area - that is the scientists.
They have to be independent and be seen to be independent.
Once they have made their risk assessment they pass their judgement then to the Commission, when the law-making would be initiated by the Commission.
It would then be discussed in the codecision procedures with Parliament and with Council.
In that way it is our responsibility to initiate and pass laws that give effect to the concerns that are expressed by the scientists.
Let me just say finally that I believe it will be necessary to have an interaction and a relationship between the scientists and the law-makers and between the risk assessment and the risk management so as to make absolutely certain that those drafting the laws understand what the scientists are saying, and that the scientists are satisfied that the law-makers are drafting the laws in such a way as to deal with the concerns expressed by them in their opinion in the area of risk assessment.
I think that they are the issues that were raised and I hope I have dealt with all of the questions satisfactorily.
Commissioner, thank you for your statement.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Council)
The next item is Question Time (B5-0036/1999).
We shall examine the questions to the Council.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President, we have adjourned the debate on beef labelling until late this evening.
I should like an assurance from Mr Byrne that he will be present at it.
We are going to ask the Commissioner whether he can be present at tonight' s debate.
(The Commissioner replied in the affirmative) Mrs Jackson has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President, this is a point of order.
It follows from what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has said.
We notice that the Council is in its place in order to take part in Council questions.
Could we have an assurance that the Council will remain in its place at 9 p.m. in order to take part in the debate on the Papayannakis report?
We appreciate very much the huge efforts the Finnish presidency has made to work very closely with Parliament.
We would therefore appreciate the Presidency being present at 9 p.m. in order to explain to us what happened at the Agriculture Council last night on the issue on which Mr Papayannakis' report is based.
Could we please have that undertaking from the Council now, in the interests of the transparency which Finland no doubt wants to be the hallmark of its presidency?
Mr MacCormick has the floor for another procedural motion, which I hope will be the last one.
Mr President, I was interested in what Mrs Jackson said.
I had heard a report that the debate on second reading on the late payments directive would also happen at 9 p.m.
The timetable has clearly become extremely disrupted.
Many of us have other engagements to try to fit in this evening.
Can the President give an authoritative ruling on the timing of events later today, please?
Mrs Siimes has listened to you attentively and to your desire for the Council to be present.
Mr MacCormick, can you repeat your procedural motion in more detail?
Am I to understand that you either will not, or are unable to, tell us what the timetable is for later this evening?
As you know, Questions to the Council will take place next, as it is the next item on the agenda, and the sitting will resume at 9.00 p.m. when there will be an announcement on the issues which you are asking about.
If you come at 9.00 p.m., you will have the opportunity to participate in that part of the agenda.
Mrs Jackson has the floor.
Mr President, on a point of order, we would very much appreciate it if you could ask the Finnish Presidency - which is sitting over there - whether it can be present at 9 o'clock this evening in order to help us with our debate on the Papayannakis report.
The Council, and only the Council, can give us the background to what happened last night in the Agriculture Council.
Could you please, so as to preserve the interests of the Members of this Parliament, put that question to the Council for an answer?

Mr President, I should also like to make a point of order and move that the Bureau consider calling the important debate on the four related reports on competition policy - which was originally scheduled for Wednesday morning, was then postponed to the afternoon and is now to be postponed to late evening - for the Tuesday of the January session if need be.
I would ask the Bureau to examine this motion so that we can duly complete the other items by midnight.
This is a motion which the President can examine.
Mr Langen, the agenda has been set.
At 9.00 p.m. we shall resume the sitting, which will begin with a joint debate.
I will now ask the question to Mrs Siimes which was put by some Members: whether she can attend at 9.00 p.m. to inform this Parliament and to guarantee it the greatest possible transparency.
If you wish to speak and reply to these Members, Mrs Siimes, you have the floor.
Mr President, as the Council did not receive a request for this in time, the relevant Minister will not be here, and I myself am prevented from being here at 9.00 p.m..
You have listened, as have I, to the Council' s options.
In any event, at 9 o' clock at night, which is a tranquil hour, and also in a Christmas spirit, surely you can hold this debate without Mrs Siimes.
If you will be so kind as to allow me, we shall begin Questions to the Council, since Mrs Siimes is currently here with her great capacity for replying to our questions.
Question No 1 by (H-0668/99):
Subject: Economic refugees in the EU In recent years the Member States have taken in thousands of economic refugees from central and eastern Europe in addition to the thousands from Turkey and other countries in the Middle East and Asia who have found sanctuary in the EU over the years.
This development is having severe effects on unemployment within the Member States and is a further burden on their already stretched social security systems, particularly in Member States (such as Greece) sharing borders with countries which have recently opted for a free market economy and which are now facing crisis on several fronts with huge numbers of unemployed.
Will the Council say whether it has raised this issue during the EU=s contacts with those countries which have expressed a desire to join the Union and what measures does it propose to implement to stem the uncontrolled flow of economic refugees into the EU, which has pronounced economic and social repercussions (e.g. an increase in crime) in its Member States?
Mr President, conditions for the arrival and residency in the Member States in respect of citizens from applicant countries are normally laid down in Member States' legislation and practices pertaining to immigration on the part of nationals of third countries.
The relevant instruments, which the Council adopted before the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam within the framework of Chapter VI of the Treaty on European Union, constitute the first phase in the harmonisation of legislation and practices in respect of immigration.
Further harmonisation is being implemented on the basis of Chapter IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community in its amended form by virtue of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Against this background, it is important to have cooperation among the Member States in order to ensure that immigration is controlled and that it is in accordance with the provisions in the laws on immigration in the Member States.
In the Council, this cooperation is assured in two ways.
Member States are regularly urged to adapt their legislation and practices to the EU laws on asylum, immigration and border controls and, in addition, there is the Schengen Convention, which became a part of European Union law with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Council informed the Member States of this by means of a list with reference to EU law in May 1998.
The implementation of the law would lead to more effective border checks and reduce illegal immigration on the part of the nationals of applicant countries and nationals of third countries coming via these countries.
The Council would like to remind everyone that the partnership agreement made with every applicant country included a survey of the special needs of that country with regard to the areas of legislation and practices, as well as those targets each applicant country should achieve.
In addition to the regular contact made in association with enlargement, the Council is monitoring the situation in applicant countries in a Working Group on joint evaluation, which was set up by the Council on 29 June 1998.
On the other hand, applicant countries participate regularly in the workings of the CIREFI, which is a Council Working Group in which Member States exchange the latest information on illegal immigration and immigration routes, either on a routine or an ad hoc basis.
This participation has itself promoted understanding with regard to the effects of illegal immigration and the need to work together to prevent it.
I should like to thank the Council representative for her reply to my question; however, I fear that my approach to this issue has not been understood.
I do not think, at least from the discussions held so far - I am a new MEP - that the economic and social repercussions of illegal immigration or the de facto immigration of the present influx of illegal immigrants and the imminent influx from countries which will join the Community when the European Union enlarges are fully appreciated or taken into serious account, even in a legal procedure.
Allow me to quote an example from my own country: Greece, with a population of 10 million, already has one and a half million immigrants, economic refugees or other types of immigrant, meaning that the working population of the country has increased by 20%.
This is causing huge economic and social problems and crime problems.
Think what will happen when Turkey joins the European Union and at least another 20 million unemployed enter Europe.
This is why I wanted to know if there are any Council or Commission studies on the matter.
Mr President, the Council is obviously aware that we have to strive to both improve and guarantee employment in the Member States in Europe, to preserve Europe' s social security systems.
One important issue here is that we should prevent employment in the black economy, which thwarts or weakens efforts to improve the employment situation.
Furthermore, I would remind everyone that at present the rules that apply to immigration on the part of nationals of applicant countries or third countries in the Member States of the European Union clearly fall within the competence of the officials appointed for this purpose at national level.
In addition, border controls and the border police in those Member States having common borders with third countries come exclusively under the authority of the Member States themselves.
I wonder if the Council would agree that the best way to stem the flow of economic migrants is by improving economic conditions in the host country?
In other words, if enlargement works, if the Agenda 2000 programme is successful in improving the economic situation in Central and Eastern European countries, this will of itself reduce the flow of economic migrants from those countries to existing Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, this is precisely what the Council thinks.
An important part of EU enlargement is the various current programmes of cooperation with those countries seeking membership of the European Union, and the basic principle is the improvement of the state of the economy in those very countries, leading to the creation of employment opportunities there, so that people would not need to move for economic reasons.
Are you sure, Mrs Siimes?
In addition to the arguments raised by Mr Martin, I would say that banning migration adds to the flow and traffic in labour which almost inevitably leads to crime.
Mr President, there are two kinds of immigration: that which takes place legally in accordance with the rules of each country, and illegal immigration. In no way do we regard legal immigration in the territory of the European Union unfavourably.
The problem is precisely the fact that illegal immigration from third countries is taking place and people are even being smuggled in from them, and we have to address these problems. But there has been no attempt whatsoever to impede legal immigration.
Question No 2 by (H-0671/99):
Subject: Compliance with Community policies and access to information held by the European Investment Bank (EIB) In March 1998 the European Investment Bank granted a loan of about ITL 60 billion to Gardaland S.p.A., for the purpose of enlarging the leisure park of the same name.
The author of this question harbours doubts about the advisability of granting the loan to a company which has substantial assets and is located in a region which is flourishing economically and which is particularly valuable and very important in ecological terms.
When it was asked about the nature of the investment planned by Gardaland, the Bank argued that it was unable to forward the relevant documents on the grounds of the confidential nature of relations between the Bank and its customers.
In view of the links between the ECOFIN Council and the EIB Board of Governors, could the Council state whether it intends to take measures to make information relating to decisions by the EIB more transparent and accessible, particularly where such decisions have major repercussions on a region's development? Does it not also consider that the effectiveness of the EIB's activities needs to be improved by introducing financial accounting and management procedures which will take environmental costs fully into account?
Mr President, the Gardaland project, approved by the Board of Governors of the European Investment Bank in December 1997, is a subject that has already been raised in Parliament in the Commission' s Oral Question Time.
The justification for the project, and its benefits, were gone over in detail then.
It evidently has to be stated again that one important precondition for the approval of project funding is that environmental considerations are taken into account in all projects assessed and formulated by the European Investment Bank. This was the case with the Gardaland project as well.
Again, with regard to the question of transparency in the Gardaland project, as with other project documents within the territory of the Community, it is most essential to bear in mind that the EIB is actually a bank.
Its documents are therefore not public in the same way as, for example, the documents of the bodies in the Council that draft legislation.
To preserve confidentiality on all sides, the EIB cannot make public documents and information it holds on borrowers or other agencies that are involved in the formulation and implementation of those projects sponsored by the Bank without their express consent.
We must also remember that, although the ministers appointed to the Board of Governors of the EIB are normally the same as those who attend the Ecofin Council sitting, the Ecofin Council has no authority in itself to lay down rules for the EIB with regard to its lending policy or information on it.
The EIB Council adopted rules on public access to documents on 26 March 1997, which were published in the Official Journal of the European Communities C 243 on August 1995 on page 13.
The European Investment Bank therefore publicly releases documentation and information within the framework of these rules, although the aim must in general be to maximise exchange of information and the principle of transparency as far as is possible without jeopardising business secrecy.
Again, if the Community grants the EIB a security against certain loans out of the Community budget, for example, to grant loans for projects in third countries, the Council has stipulated that the EIB must, in these cases, produce an annual report to both the European Parliament and the Council on the action achieved with the help of the secured loans in question.
Madam President, if what you say is true, we have been particularly unfortunate because, although we requested these environmental assessments, we have not received a reply insofar as we have only been told that this is confidential information.
It is therefore clear that there is something that does not add up in what you are telling us.
We did not ask for information on the reasons why the EIB granted the funding. We simply asked what the general criteria which justified it were and which assessments were used when considering and granting the funds for the project - which, moreover, affects one of the richest areas in Italy, and which has a delicate environmental balance.
According to what you are saying, these assessments should be public but, according to the EIB, this is not the case.
Therefore, there is a slight discrepancy between your assertions and reality.
Mr President, as the Council stated in its reply, the European Investment Bank is a bank, and it therefore cannot function in accordance with the same rules on public access as the European Union institutions that enact legislation.
There is a lot of business secrecy involved in making decisions on loans and, as I said in my reply, it can be divulged to outsiders only with the express consent of the opposite party.
As regards decisions on loans made by the EIB, the Gardaland project affair has already been dealt with in the Commission' s Oral Question Time in Parliament and it was at that time, according to the Council' s information, that the justification for the project and its benefits were explained in great detail, and I shall therefore not return to the matter.
Question No 3 by (H-0673/99):
Subject: Opening up the Council of Ministers to transparency What is the latest situation with the case taken by Swedish journalists to the European Court of Justice regarding the conflict between the undemocratic secrecy of documents of the Council of Ministers and the open transparency of all documents as required by the excellent two-hundred-year-old Freedom-of-Information law in Sweden?
Mr President, on 17 June 1998, the Court of First Instance abrogated Council Decision 174/95 of 6 July 1995, according to which the plaintiff is not entitled to access certain documents associated with Europol concerning the public' s right to access Council documents, by virtue of Council Decision 93/731/EC.
The Council re-examined its own decision on the basis of this judgement and stated in a new decision made known to the plaintiff on 30 July 1998 that it could release the documents in question with the exception of one.
No legal action was taken as a result of this new decision, and the matter can now therefore be considered resolved.
Under Article 255 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Council must establish in a codecision procedure with the European Parliament general principles and limitations regarding access to documents to take account of the public or private interest within two years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
According to information available, the Commission is to deliver its proposal to the Council in January 2000, in compliance with the provision in the Treaty.
I am sure that the President-in-Office has noticed that five of the first 16 questions on the order paper, the previous question from Mrs Frassoni, and so on, are all about transparency.
Since we represent the public - the people of Europe - I hope that the Council notes that there is a wish for transparency in the Council.
My question is this: is it correct that the decision within the Council on which documents are to be released to the public and which are kept secret is made by a committee of the 15 press officers from the national representation offices by a majority vote?
I was told this by one of the 15 press officers.
They sit there, completely unelected, and decide what is going to be published and what is not.
Is that really true because it is very hard to believe?
Mr President, I will state here just very briefly that the Council Working Group represents the Council.
It is a legal body and makes its own decisions.
The legal case which is being referred to here, the so-called Journalists' Case, is of great significance as an issue of principle.
One of the key points in the case is that of whether a Member State, in this case Sweden, has the right to abide by its own constitution and publish EU documents.
I would point out that, in its address, the Council of Ministers disputed that right.
Now, the proposal for a set of regulations in accordance with Article 255 is on the way.
I have a draft from the Commission which is very worrying.
This says that the Commission wants to use Article 255 to limit the right of national authorities to publish EU documents which have not otherwise been made public.
My question to the Council is this: does the Council intend that, with Article 255 as a basis, it should be possible to limit the Member States' right to publish documents in accordance with their own national legislation?
Mr President, as I stated in my original reply, the Commission is actually to deliver its own proposal on this matter to the Council in January 2000, and after the proposal has come from the Commission, the Council will debate it and determine its own position on the matter.
As there is no proposal yet, there is no fixed Council position either.
Mr President, I am interested first and foremost in how relations with Parliament actually stand?
Do you envisage the possibility of allowing Parliament to inspect all Coreper and Council documents on the Intranet?
Mr President, during the Finnish Presidency the decision was taken that the agendas for the Coreper meetings would be made available, and this is a step in the direction that the honourable Member would like to see.
Question No 4 by (H-0674/99):
Subject: Air traffic control in Europe What action is the Commission planning to take in order to put right the chaotic state of affairs prevailing within Europe=s air traffic control systems?
Could the Commission propose that a single body be set up to control airspace throughout Europe?
Mr President, the Council is aware of the increasing delays in Europe' s air traffic.
This subject was discussed in the Council on 19 July 1999, and it was decided to adopt a resolution.
The Council expressed its concern over the problems being caused by delayed flights, which are becoming more serious, and considered that action needed to be taken to find a solution to these problems and in this way respond to the demands by the citizens of Europe for a better service.
The Council urged the Commission in particular to produce a report on recent and current measures in place to try to reduce air traffic delays and congestion in Europe.
The problem was further discussed in the Council sitting of 6 October 1999, and it was decided that a thorough debate should be held on the issue in the next sitting of the Council in December, on the basis of a report currently being drafted in the Commission.
The Council asked the Member States to do their very best before then to reach a positive decision in their current talks on the question of the Community joining Eurocontrol, the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation.
Eurocontrol is a key coordinator in Europe' s air traffic control system.
In its sitting of 9 and 10 December 1999, the Council held a large-scale debate on the Commission' s new report on air traffic control, which was delivered to the Council and the European Parliament on the Single European Airspace.
That report analyses the situation with regard to delayed flights and proposes some short-term measures to address the problem and puts forward some ideas about how the problem should be tackled in the longer term.
The Council noted with satisfaction the Commission' s proposals for short-term action to try to ease the situation that resulted from delayed flights in Europe.
The matter will be addressed by Eurocontrol and the Ministers responsible for civil aviation in their meeting to be held on 28 January.
In addition, the Council noted the Commission' s approach to the structural reform of air traffic, which was broader in scope and which set out to create a single European airspace. At the same time, it noted with satisfaction the Commission' s intention to set up a high level Working Group to look into the matter and report back to the Council next June on the issues involved.
The Council also urged the Permanent Representatives Committee to examine the Commission' s report and agreed to return to the issue at the next meeting.
Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, for the reply you have given me.
It is clear that the Council is currently considering this issue, which is of concern to all European citizens.
In this case, as an MEP, I have asked you a question which corresponds to the worries of my electors.
I come from a country, Spain, which depends very much on air transport and, in recent years, in Spanish airports, particularly Barajas and Barcelona, delays have been extreme.
Is there any possibility of some kind of accelerated aid from the Council to the current Spanish government and the airport authorities to eliminate this horrendous inconvenience to our citizens resulting from the poor functioning of the Spanish air traffic control service?
Mr President, as I have already said, the Council has looked into this problem of flight delays and called on the Commission to act accordingly and, as I said in my reply, we have also already made headway this autumn in this matter.
The fact that congestion and delays are more common in some parts of Europe than others is obviously very unfortunate, and perhaps the quickest way to deal with the problem is for the national authorities to find out what can be done to improve the situation in the individual Member States.
I hope that the national authorities of our shared country of origin, that of Mr Medina and myself, take good note of this advice from the Council.
Mr President, on mainland Europe delays of several hours are quite common, but in the outermost regions such as the autonomous region of the Azores, delays can last days or sometimes even weeks.
This is because there is an obvious shortfall in resources for air traffic control and for aid for airports and aerodromes in the outermost regions such as the Azores.
I would like to ask if the Council, which is quite rightly concerned about the situation in mainland Europe, also retains some concern for the situation of regions such as the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which is currently experiencing major problems, particularly following last weekend' s air disaster.
Mr President, it is certainly true that problems such as these are critical in smaller, outlying areas.
If I can now add something to my previous replies, I might say that one reason for delayed flights is obviously that, with the present system, an aircraft is cleared for take-off only after making sure it can land at the destination airport.
This is obviously annoying for the passengers sitting on board the aircraft or waiting at the airport for the aircraft to be cleared for take-off but, on the other hand, this procedure is more environment-friendly than having the planes take off on time and not being able to land when they get to their destination.
Mr President, may I ask the President-in-Office a question of a different sort on air traffic control.
I appreciate she may not have been briefed on this, so if she does not know the answer perhaps she would be kind enough to write to me in such a way that we can publish it for our colleagues.
It concerns the issue of the regulation which is shortly to come in which will enable airline pilots between the ages of 60 and 65 to fly freight traffic throughout Europe, with one exception.
The one exception is France.
That means, because of the extent of French airspace, pilots over 60 will effectively be out of a job.
Will she take that back to the Council of Ministers, raise it with her French colleagues in particular, and answer me, perhaps in writing later, unless she is able to do so today, about what can be done to ensure that these older pilots' jobs are made safe.
We are not sure, Mr Bowis, that this is a supplementary question.
You have suggested it already.
And there is always the epistolary relationship, which is so interesting, between the Council and the Members, but the President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
Mr President, it would be wiser to answer this question in writing.
Question No 5 by (H-0678/99):
Subject: Referendum on self­determination in Western Sahara On 3 November 1999 the Moroccan Minister for Internal Affairs, Driss Basri, said in El Aaiún that the referendum on self-determination in Western Sahara, which is due to be held on 31 July 2000, >will be postponed for two or three years= on account of the 71 420 appeals which have been lodged against the provisional list of voters which is being drawn up by the UN mission responsible for the referendum in Western Sahara.
The UN has not recognised the authors of those appeals as being entitled to vote in the referendum.
What view does the Council take of the statement by the Moroccan Minister for Internal Affairs, to the effect that the referendum is to be postponed?
Is the Council planning to make representation to the Moroccan authorities in order to persuade them to stop holding up the referendum?
What attitude and what political initiatives is the Council planning to adopt in order to help ensure that the referendum does indeed go ahead on the date set by the UN, i.e. 31 July 2000?
Mr President, the Council cannot comment on the statement by the Moroccan Minister for Internal Affairs.
However, with regard to the referendum, the Council has noted the report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, which refers to the careful consideration given to all the consequences of the affair, including those relating to the timetable for the referendum.
The Secretary-General of the UN also stated that he would make a realistic assessment of future action when he delivers his next report to the UN Security Council in December.
The Secretary-General has given his special envoy instructions to continue talks with the parties involved. With regard to the enforced hearing of the 79 000 appeals, the UN Secretary-General cannot give precise details of the timetable or the additional staff needed to bring the hearing to a close.
This will not affect the commitment on all sides to comply with the UN peace plan for the Western Sahara.
The Council has offered its support to Mr Igleton, who is the UN Secretary-General' s special envoy in the Western Sahara, and the Council is prepared to push for a peaceful solution, based on the thorough assessment contained in the UN' s next report.
All sides should work together in an atmosphere of cooperation built on trust and refrain from any action that could jeopardise finding a solution to the Western Sahara problem that is based on a respect for human rights and democracy.
Madam representative of the Council, we have listened to Kofi Annan' s report on the most recent information regarding the referendum and we attended the 25th Conference on the support by European NGOs of the Saharaoui people a few weeks ago in the Canary Islands.
The main complaint raised there was that Europe is not sufficiently involved in this issue.
It is true that it supports the peace plan, it is true that it sends letters and other things, but Europe has a specific responsibility because my country, Spain, and other countries have a close connection with the current situation in the Sahara.
We have listened to Abdelaziz who has described again the unsustainable situation of the Saharaoui people in the Tinduf camps.
It is a situation in which they are making an enormous effort to maintain the education of their children and to feed their population, but which has already lasted more than 20 years.
The referendum should have been held in 1992.
It is not acceptable that now, as a result of 79 000 appeals by Morocco, it might be delayed by two more years.
We cannot judge the parties equally.
The Saharaouis are not hindering the referendum.
It is Morocco that is making things difficult.
We ask Europe to become more involved.
Mr President, the EU has not been particularly involved in the hearing of the case, but it is considering ways of constructively influencing the progress of the peace process in the Western Sahara.
In addition, the Finnish Presidency has been in contact with Mr Igleton to discuss EU participation in the preparations for, and organisation of, the referendum.
Mr Igleton has himself requested such participation, and he has also appealed to the governments of the EU Member States to send representatives to the region.
In a meeting with the Finnish Presidency held on 14 September, Mr Igleton urged the EU to convey a message to Morocco and Algeria that the international community is aiming for a sense of equilibrium in the Maghreb, and to make it clear that it will be difficult to provide financial aid for the reconstruction of the region without this sort of stability.
Furthermore, the Finnish Presidency adopted a resolution on 21 June 1999, in which the EU' s promise of support for the UN peace plan and related action was reiterated.
Thank you very much, Mrs Siimes.
Question No 6 by (H-0679/99):
Subject: Implementation of ECHR judgement against Turkey Last month the Council of Europe's Committee of Permanent Representatives condemned Turkey for failing to comply with a judgement handed down by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Mrs Titina Loizidou, thereby breaching its fundamental contractual obligation under Article 46 of the European Convention of Human Rights which specifically enjoins the implementation of judgments by the Court.
The ultimate sanction for a state which is a signatory to the Convention but which refuses to comply with Court judgments is expulsion or the suspension of its participation in the bodies of the Council of Europe.
Top Turkish officials have specifically declared that they will not implement the judgement by the Court of Human Rights.
Thus, on the one hand, we have a scenario in which the EU Member States may expel Turkey from the Council of Europe while, on the other, its candidature for EU membership is being discussed in Helsinki.
Is the Council aware of this?
Before any further proposal is made to accept Turkey's candidature, will it call on Turkey to provide a specific commitment to implement the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights in the Loizidou case?
Mr President, the Council naturally follows the human rights situation in Turkey closely.
Although the Council is not inclined to interfere in the work of another international organisation, it keeps a close eye on whether Turkey is complying with decisions of the European Court of Human Rights.
The Council is aware that, in the case of Titina Loizidou, the European Court of Human Rights considered that Turkey was in violation of the European Convention of Human Rights when that country was found guilty of depriving a person of the rights to property in Northern Cyprus. Turkey was ordered to pay compensation.
The Council is furthermore aware that the deadline for Turkey to implement that judgement ended in October 1998 and that Turkey has still not paid the compensation specified.
The Council wishes to point out that all EU Member States voted in favour of a provisional resolution on the issue, which the Committee of Ministers in the Council of Europe adopted on 6 October 1999, and which stated that the terms of payment proposed by the Turkish government could not be considered to be in compliance with the obligations in respect of the court decision taken, and forcefully urged Turkey to re-examine her position.
However, nothing in this provisional document alludes to the far-reaching effects that the honourable Member mentions in the second part of his question.
Madam President, thank you for your reply.
The problem is precisely this: nothing has been said as to what will happen if Turkey does not comply with its obligation to compensate Mrs Loizidou.
However, the question which was put to you - to you in the Council - is this: what political response do you, as the Council, intend to make to this conduct since Turkey has stated on numerous occasions that it does not intend to comply?
As we are now entering into new relations with Turkey, perhaps the question of respect for the decisions of the Court could be raised - and I think that it should be raised - within the framework of these relations?
Mr President, as I said, the Council does not wish to interfere directly in the work of other international organisations but, naturally, it will be following the development of this case as it proceeds, and it will then contemplate the possible outcome.
I have already described the current state of affairs in my reply.
Question No 7 by (H-0685/99):
Subject: Humanitarian aid for Serbia With the onset of winter, will the Council take action to ensure that humanitarian aid is sent to the Serbian people, following the reservations expressed by the Stability Pact coordinator himself, Mr Bodo Hombach, concerning the continued embargo, which is causing greater hardship to the Serbian people than to the Milosevic regime?
Mr President, for the sake of clarity I would like to mention firstly that humanitarian aid is sent to the Serbian people via the European Commission' s ECHO programme.
EUR 62 million was set aside for humanitarian aid projects for Serbia in 1999 alone.
In addition, ECHO is at present considering granting EUR 20 million in aid, inter alia, for heating in special institutions such as children' s homes and homes for the elderly.
Furthermore, the Council has made a decision to send heating oil for the winter under the Energy for Democracy programme.
The cities of Nis and Pirot in Serbia are involved in trial projects, and they were the first to take delivery of the consignments of oil.
The Council has also reconfirmed its readiness to consider including other cities in the initiative.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, forgive me.
I ask you about humanitarian aid and you respond by talking about plans of a mainly political nature, such as the famous programme - the last one which you referred to - in certain towns which is, permit me to say, a quasi-political programme.
I am not well versed in religious matters, but I think that humanitarian programmes are directed not at friends but at those who have a problem of a humanitarian nature, be they friends or enemies.
Politically, I have no particular sympathies with the regime of Mr Milosevic - on the contrary - but I cannot understand what the position is regarding humanitarian aid to the Serbian people, the final consequence of which would, of course, be the lifting of the embargo.
You did not reply to that, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, and I would like a clearer response.
Mr President, this year the European Union has given or will have given Serbia a total of EUR 62 million for different humanitarian aid projects.
This is an example of aid reaching its destination.
In addition, it is planned that EUR 20 million in aid could be granted under the ECHO programme to special institutions, that is to say for heating for all those who are worst off, such as those in children' s homes and homes for the elderly.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, all of us here must have realised that we are witnessing an unprecedented act of blackmail against the Yugoslavian people, especially the Serbian people.
To be specific, these people suffered merciless bombing by NATO for 78 days, with the active participation of the European Union; today they are subject to inhumane blackmail on the pretext of the democratisation of the Federal Democracy of Yugoslavia, in other words, they must overthrow their legitimate government in order for the fuel embargo to be lifted and they are to be given the funds to reconstruct what was flattened by NATO and European Union bombs.
As far as we are concerned, this is a policy of de facto genocide.
The issue therefore is not whether a few tonnes of oil will be given to orphanages and old peoples' homes, but whether the necessary funds will be given to Yugoslavia, to its legally elected government - let us once and for all respect international law fully, and not selectively - so that we can restore the damage and stop the political genocide of the Serbian people.
Thank you very much, Mr Korakas.
I do not know if you have asked a specific question.
Mr President, I am asking if the funds needed to reconstruct everything that was flattened will be released and if the embargo will be lifted and the money will be given to the Yugoslavian Government, the legally elected Yugoslavian Government, with the involvement of foreign observers, etc.
Your question is now clearer: whether the money is arriving and whether the embargo can be lifted.
The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
Mr President, I have already said that money is being used for humanitarian aid.
That is a different matter from reconstruction aid proper.
In addition, the Council supports democratic forces everywhere, and would point out that the current government in the region has not been democratically elected.
It is still too early to examine the trade embargo; we do not yet know what should be done about it in the future.
Question No 8 by (H-0694/99):
Subject: Overlapping of European Parliament part­sessions and meetings of the Council of Ministers Of the 41 meetings of the Council of Ministers scheduled between September and December 1999, 18 took place or will take place when Parliament is holding plenary sessions in Strasbourg or Brussels.
Important Councils such as the Internal Market, Ecofin, General Affairs and JHA Councils fairly often meet during part-session weeks.
Does the Council not agree that this overlapping is undesirable, given that the Commission has to attend meetings of both the Council and Parliament?
Is the Council aware that press coverage of Parliament=s part-sessions suffers as a result, in that journalists cannot be in two places at once and usually give priority to Council meetings in Brussels?
Dos the Council not share the view that public opinion on Europe in general and the European Parliament in particular would benefit if the institutions took account of each other=s calendar of meetings?
Does the Council intend to take greater account in future of Parliament=s presence in Strasbourg each month, particularly since it is the Council that has obliged Parliament to meet there?
Mr President, according to Article 1(2) of the Council' s Rules of Procedure it falls to the competence of the Presidency of the Council to announce the dates of Council sittings planned to be held during its term of office seven months before that term of office commences.
The problem that arises from the situation raised by the honourable Member could be brought to the attention of the Member States, which succeed each other as countries holding the Presidency of the Council.
However, I shall be more specific and say that the country holding the Presidency generally has little leeway when you consider that 15 ministers convene in the Council, all of whom have very pressing schedules.
Furthermore, the Council' s working efficiency could suffer significantly if it neglected to have sittings each month lasting a week and they were, as a result, squeezed inevitably more tightly into the weeks left over.
Mr President, I have to say that this reply is entirely unsatisfactory because I am not bothered about addressing the Presidency.
I do want to address the Council.
At the end of the day, the current Presidency embodies the Council.
It is also a question addressed to the Council and the issue is that very often meetings take place these days when we are in Strasbourg and that the press cannot come to Strasbourg.
I do believe that the Council will have to realise that the extent of support for the European Union amongst its citizens is of key importance.
Finland too, as one of the 15 Member States, is affected by this.
So as far as I am concerned, this does not answer my question and I hope that this will be discussed in a broader context within the Council at some stage.
Mr President, this bears out once again that it is crazy that we are banished to Strasbourg time and again by the same Council.
Indeed, if this was not the case, this problem would not arise.
I would like to ask the Finnish President to check with her colleagues in the Council and with all 15 Member States whether this could be taken on board in future?
Mr President, it is obviously true that the Presidency represents the Council and that the organisation of Council meetings is the specific task of the Council.
In practice, however, matters proceed in such a way that each successive Presidency makes its own schedule for its forthcoming term.
I understand very well that Parliament' s work here in Strasbourg is very important, and it is indeed to be hoped that the overlapping of meetings can be avoided.
As there are a lot of Councils, and they are made up of 15 members, who should all be present, and as there are many issues to discuss, it is virtually impossible to imagine that some weeks might be left entirely free, as the Councils are quite busy enough as they are.
It is clear, however, that the organisation of Council meeting timetables has to be looked at seriously.
Finland, as the country that will soon be handing over the Presidency, will carry on with the message that we should always try to avoid overlapping, if circumstances allow.
Unfortunately, however, it is not always possible.
Thank you very much, Mrs Siimes.
Question No 9 by (H-0697/99):
Subject: Fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions In the light of the fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and in view of the armed conflicts that have taken place in the world over the past few years, particularly in continental Europe, what opinion does the Council hold on the level of compliance with the International Humanitarian Law laid down by these Conventions?
Mr President, when the fiftieth anniversary of the four Geneva Conventions was celebrated in August 1999, it was an opportune time for the EU to strengthen its commitment to promoting International Humanitarian Law in all armed conflicts.
In this connection the Finnish Presidency reaffirmed that the European Union considers compliance with the four Geneva Conventions and the two protocols to be important, as they are the general agreements relating to International Humanitarian Law.
The European Union has urged countries, which have not yet done so, to be a party to the Geneva agreements and other agreements relating to humanitarian issues.
The EU, where necessary, has also stated to countries involved in conflicts that the provisions of the Conventions must be fully taken into consideration.
At the twenty-seventh international conference of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent held between 30 October and 16 November, the EU for the first time adopted a resolution which stressed that recent and current conflicts have shown that war is ever more making victims of civilians, especially women and children, or that they have been used as pawns in war situations.
The European Union said it was concerned about how serious the situation had become, and regretted the fact that International Humanitarian Law continued to be violated.
In relation to this, the EU took a positive view of the UN Secretary-General' s recent report on the protection of civilians in armed conflicts.
Many of the major recommendations of the Secretary-General should be looked into right away, as they offer a good basis for active commitment on the part of the Security Council in this matter.
To make the implementation of International Humanitarian Law more effective, the EU gave a general assurance on handheld weapons, light weapons and anti-personnel land mines.
In addition, the Council expressed its grave concern, at a recent meeting on 11 November 1999, over continued military action in the northern Caucasus.
In this connection, the European Union condemned all the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in Chechnya, which has caused severe suffering to the civil population.
The Council also reminded everyone that all sides in a conflict have to comply with International Humanitarian Law.
Furthermore, the Council urged the Russian Government in particular to avoid civil casualties and ensure that international humanitarian aid gets to its destinations unhindered, including the growing numbers forced to abandon their homes and cross the border into Ingushetia.
The Geneva Conventions have an in-built preventative effect, and any who may be in violation of humanitarian legislation are more aware than ever that it can no longer be taken for granted that transgressors will go unpunished.
The EU has said on many occasions said that the practice of impunity is not acceptable.
If national systems are not effective enough, the international community ultimately has the responsibility to see that the law is enforced.
Trials involving violations of International Humanitarian Law are thus an important means of encouraging compliance with the Conventions.
International courts hearing cases from the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda have emphasised the importance of the Geneva Conventions by increasing credibility in the notions of responsibility for war crimes and personal responsibility.
In this connection the European Union has taken a positive view of the adoption of the statute for a permanent International Criminal Court.
That will go further to promote the commitment to a speedy entry into force of the Rome Statute and the effective and credible establishment of an International Criminal Court.
The EU wants the international community to aim in the future, above all, at closing the widening gap between the existing international standards and compliance with them.
The European Union is determined to include this special angle on humanitarian matters on the agenda at international forums.
The Finnish Presidency, at the fifty-fourth sitting of the UN General Assembly, called on the international community to find the right solutions and answers to the new and unforeseeable challenges of humanitarian law.
Mr President, last Monday the Socialist Group tried to include a motion for a resolution in the agenda of this plenary sitting which would have highlighted the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, demonstrated the commitment of the European Parliament to the principles of international humanitarian law and expressed our support for the International Committee of the Red Cross.
As a result of a mix-up amongst the Groups in this Parliament, and we think that this was more a matter of procedure than a disagreement over the content of the motion, it was not included in this debate. In later sittings, however, we will insist on attention being given to the importance of this issue, which has been well highlighted in the reply of the representative of the Council.
In fact, the basic principles of international humanitarian law, which are contained in the Geneva Conventions, are values which must be maintained as a basis for European construction and promoted through institutional activities.
In any event, the European Union must be an agent for peace and international humanitarian law and it must assist the ICRC in its task of guaranteeing that this law is upheld.
Furthermore, the European Union must provide as much aid as possible to relieve the suffering of victims and we must, at last, contribute to the education of our citizens in terms of respect for peace.
For all these reasons, on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, at a time when we must all commit ourselves - Parliament, Commission and Council - to promoting awareness of international humanitarian law and supporting the organisations responsible for its protection, does the Council propose any specific initiative to promote the knowledge of international humanitarian law amongst the citizens of the Union?
Thank you very much, Mr Martínez.
I hope that there are no more procedural motions, because in the end you have asked a question after a statement of principles.
However, if Mr Dupuis wants to table a procedural motion, he has the right to do so.
Mr President, I wanted to know if this was a real question or a spoof question.
No, in the end, surprisingly, there has been a question, although I did not know initially whether it was a question or not.
In fact, it was a question.
What has happened is that firstly there was an explanation of the question in the form of a declaration.
There has been a question, to which the President of the Council may reply.
Perhaps, the President has heard more of a declaration.
I would ask you to repeat the question since it has been so brief that we hardly noticed it.
I do not know if Mr Dupuis is a parliamentarian or a false parliamentarian, but I would like to say that I ended with a very clear question, which asked whether the Council proposed any specific initiative for promoting awareness of international humanitarian law.
That was my question and I have justified it with arguments which you have all heard.
I repeat that I do not know whether others are parliamentarians or false parliamentarians, but my question was not a false question.
We are all real parliamentarians, Mr Martínez, Mr Dupuis, but this type of parliamentary manoeuvring happens and it is quite normal.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, there is a specific and clear question and you may reply.
Mr President, the EU thinks that this gap between the standards that exist and compliance with them must be closed in future.
One concrete move in this direction was made when the Finnish Presidency at the fifty-fourth sitting of the UN General Assembly called on the international community to make a real effort to find the right solutions and responses to the new and unforeseeable challenges of humanitarian law, and it is the EU' s intention to raise this issue in different international contexts.
Question No 10 by (H-0699/99):
Subject: Transport of live animals Does the Council support a limit to the transport of live animals of a total journey of not more than eight hours?
Mr President, the Council would remind the honourable Member that it issued Directive 91/628/EEC on the protection of animals during transportation, and its amended version, 95/29/EC, which established rules for the transportation of animals within the territory of the EU, including maximum time limits for the transport of different types of animal.
Furthermore, the Member States are urging the Commission to introduce a proposal for a directive to limit the overall time for the transport of animals to a maximum of eight hours.
Mr President, the Minister has given the right answer.
The problem is that the second part of the answer should be to say what she is going to do to make sure that it is implemented.
Would she agree that a sign of a civilised society is humane treatment of its animals?
In Europe today we still see animals suffering agonies and animals dying in transit as a result of the inhumanity of transport conditions.
Too many animals are transported in cramped conditions, without adequate food and water, without opportunities to turn round, to get out, to exercise on their journeys.
Eight hours, as she has rightly said, should be the legal limit throughout the European Union for live animal transport.
It should be the limit, under the directives; it is not in practice.
I ask the President-in-Office of the Council to talk to the Council, talk to the Commission, and say why this is not yet being enforced.
Animals are suffering and therefore Europe is not yet a civilised society in this regard.
Mr President, the reference to the Commission in this question is very much in order since, by virtue of the acts based on the Treaty and its provisions, it is specifically the task of the Commission to see that Community legislation is being properly applied.
In this capacity, the Commission must also make proposals it sees as fit to correct possible distortions.
The Council for its part is prepared to give special attention to any proposals made to it by the Commission that concern the area the honourable Member refers to.
If the honourable Member would like to know more about the actual conditions relating to the transport of animals or bring the matter to the attention of the Commission it would perhaps be better if he put his questions directly to the Commission, as the express job of the Commission is both to monitor compliance with the provisions of directives in force and act if compliance is not taking place.
. -
Question No 11 by (H-0703/99):
Subject: Action by the EU against illegal trafficking in nuclear, biological and chemical materials Despite serious evidence of illegal trafficking in nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) weapons-grade materials, no serious steps are being taken to combat the problem.
At the same time, multilateral deliberations on this matter and agreements on the monitoring of NBC materials are proving inadequate. According to many rumours and reports, these networks are situated mainly in the Ukraine, the Czech Republic and Russia and the illegal trading activities are centred mainly in Constantinople and Budapest, while much of the trafficking is carried out through channels in the Balkans, many of which go through Kosovo.
What view does the Council take of this major problem and what is its attitude towards those countries within whose territory this dangerous and illegal trafficking is taking place, particularly where there is evidence of a cover-up and especially in view of the fact that some of the countries involved are seeking EU membership or association?
Mr President, the prevention and control of the illegal trade in substances that can be used in the manufacture of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons is the aim behind customs, legal and police cooperation in the Union in matters of crime, an aim that we are attempting to fulfil both directly and via Europol.
As the problem mentioned is an international one, crossing the borders of the Union, international regulations have also been established regarding this issue.
In 1996 the Council adopted a decision on the participation by the Member States of the EU in strategic action planned by the World Customs Organisation for the Balkan channels to speed up the process of international cooperation and develop the control of illegal commerce, particularly in the Balkans.
The joint operation, called "Roadrunner" , was set up in 1998, and the same sort of operation has also been planned for the Balkan channels in 2000.
In addition, the EU' s customs administration each year sets up joint operations to stop illegal commerce.
Third countries, especially the Central and Eastern European countries, are invited, as required, to take part in these operations.
Furthermore, the Council has agreed on certain joint police operations aimed at the prevention of international crime, which will make it easier to control the routes used by criminals more comprehensively.
One of these operations is a route control project, to prevent the illegal trade in weapons.
To bring control into more precise focus, the Member States of the European Union are working to improve the efficiency of risk assessment methods and the exchange of information process that makes prevention possible.
We are convinced that the more efficient use of computer systems to circulate information will make it easier to identify consignments that constitute a risk, the dealers and the countries of origin and the destinations.
The Member States of the EU are committed to an effective block on weapons policy and participation in operations relating to the control of exports, i.e. action by the nuclear exporters' group, the Zanger Committee, the Australia Group and the Wassenaar arrangements.
Thank you for your reply.
I asked you and the Commission this question purely and simply so that we would all sit up and take note of an issue which has always been dealt with in the past either as a question of crime or as a question of international terrorism.
I want to use this point of view to draw your attention to the fact that, when the political decision to enlarge the European Union was taken in Helsinki a few days ago, the political criteria of the Europe of the 15 were included, the Copenhagen criteria, were included, and rightly so; however, you should take account of the fact that there are problems in the new applicant countries which did not apply in the past to the fifteen.
In this context, when the question includes the matter of what the European Union is doing in relation to applicant countries where these materials are transported through their territory or these situations are covered up, what it means is what policy will it follow or what political commitments will it impose on these countries so that progress can be made with accession procedures.
This is the political issue, over and above any others in relation, for example, to the manpower which has know-how on these issues and which has remained unemployed, in relation to the laboratories of the Soviet Union and certain other matters.
My question referred to this political issue and that is why I asked it.
Mr President, firstly, the problem mentioned in the final part of the honourable Member' s question was that there are many former military personnel who are unemployed, both in the applicant countries and the other third countries close to the EU.
The EU has tried in part to address this problem through its programmes to specifically support alternative models of employment for these people.
With regard to smuggling and the applicant countries, what I said in my reply is clearly the case, that the EU' s customs administration now establishes joint operations, on an annual basis, to stop illegal commerce, and, if necessary, third countries are also invited to take part in these operations.
Through these operations and during the general process leading up to membership, we clearly have to tighten up cooperation and our common ability to also function in those areas that fall within the jurisdiction of the EU.
. -
Question No 12 by (H-0706/99):
Subject: Practice of the European Court of Justice with regard to openness Recent events in the European Union have shown that EU decision making must be public.
The EU institutions have made considerable efforts to create a climate of openness with regard to decision making.
However, unlike the courts in many Member States, the European Court of Justice has a policy of only limited openness.
No statistics are kept of the outcome of votes in connection with its decisions and judges do not express views at variance with Court judgments.
Does the Council intend to take steps to ensure that after a reform of its activities the European Court of Justice complies with this principle of openness by introducing more transparent decision making?
Does the Council intend to urge that the outcome of votes in connection with decisions should be published and that judges should be allowed to express views at variance with a given judgement?
Mr President, pursuant to Article 321 of the basic instrument of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Article 33 of the basic instrument of Euratom, and Article 29 of the basic instrument of the ECSC, deliberations in the European Court of Justice are secret, and remain so.
In its current practice, the Court of Justice is simply applying those provisions.
Pursuant to Article 245 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, Article 45 of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and Article 160 of the Euratom Treaty, the Council can amend the rules on secrecy only at the request of the European Court of Justice.
The idea expressed by the honourable Member is naturally one of those approaches that may be adopted when considering theoretically how to solve the problem of openness regarding the deliberations of a body exercising judicial power.
However, as the honourable Member quite rightly points out, this is not a question of a practice that might even be adopted in the internal systems of all the Member States.
The approach suggested by the honourable Member has both its advantages and drawbacks, as does that adhered to in compliance with the legislation in force that applies to the European Court of Justice.
We might, however, imagine that the delicate balance that is being aspired to in this area will duly take account of the different principles to be acknowledged in this case.
Mr President, I might say in response to Mr Bowis' question that not only animals but MEPs also suffer in this Chamber, when timetables change and it is sometimes quite boring to have to wait.
However, my thanks go to the representative of the Council for still having answered my question.
The European Court of Justice exercises power in a remarkable way.
For the public to really be able to see that the Court' s application of the law meets all the criteria of independence and objectivity traditionally associated with a court of law, the application of law must be undertaken openly.
I would like to thank the Presidency of the Council for being of the same opinion as I am on this but how significant would you say the justifications for decisions are, and the fact that the individual opinions of the judges and the bases of interpretation, especially regarding the sorts of cases that have given rise to debate, will remain forever in the dark?
Should we not include the future status of the European Court of Justice on the IGC agenda, so that these clauses in the Treaty can be amended insofar as this matter is concerned?
Mr President, I will start with the final part of the supplementary question.
With regard to the IGC agenda, this is something that is still alive and well, and it is obviously possible to return to the question raised by the honourable Member on that agenda.
This secrecy regarding deliberations which exists in the current versions of the Treaties is, in any case, justified to the extent that it is an effective means of preserving the independence of the judges, the adoption of decisions and, furthermore, the consistent interpretation of Community law.
If the varying opinions of the judges were to be made public, that would, at least for the present, be at odds with the structure of the Community' s legal system.
This practice, which exists in some Member States, is accounted for by those countries' legal histories and is the result of the distinctive features of their judicial systems.
The practice, which exists in one or more Member States, would, however, be quite difficult to transfer to a Community court, without making agreement on decisions harder as a result of the change.
Earlier this evening we discussed a concrete case before the European Court of Justice under question 3, the so-called Journalists' Case.
What amazed me, in following the discussion, was the fact that the address by the Council of Ministers too - it was of course the Council of Ministers which stood accused in this case - was classified as secret.
I really do think it is unreasonable for a particular institution' s opinion on a political issue to be classified as secret if there are no very special reasons indeed for this.
I wonder if the Council of Ministers considers that the increased openness which is now hopefully to come within the EU ought also to embrace the Council of Ministers' addresses to the European Court of Justice.
Finally, I want to say that it is especially pleasing to have a minister from the Left Alliance here too.
Mr Sjöstedt, I realise that I have infringed the Rules of Procedure because you had already asked one supplementary question and on Council days you can only ask one.
This mea culpa shows that errors are committed in relation to the Rules of Procedure, but it was a pertinent question and so the Council may reply.
Mrs Siimes has the floor.
Mr President, I believe the Council has already answered the question about the case of the journalist, and I would like to point out that the Council altered its own position in this case regarding public access to documents so that in the end there was just one document, information on which was not to be given out.
In that sense, obviously, the Council itself - how can I say this? - corrected its procedures to make for greater transparency, which has been spoken of here.
Regarding the original question, I would say that the decisions of the Court and the documents associated with them are obviously rather a different matter from that of decisions of a body drafting legal provisions.
In this sense also, the criteria for openness regarding whose varying opinions should be made known and whose should not - as those of the judges are not - are obviously different matters for consideration.
Thank you very much, for your willingness to answer our questions.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, questions 13 to 32 will be replied to in writing.
That concludes Questions to the Council.
Mrs Kauppi has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President, I am completely satisfied with the Council' s reply but, before this part of this sitting ends, I would like to ask the Bureau when it intends to decide on the issue, as we are having a debate on Mr von Wogau' s report on the important issue of competition policy and state aid policy, which was meant in fact for this morning, but which today was put back by several hours.
Now it has been said that it might even be moved to January.
I would like to know at what time it might be safe to leave if I want to give my opinion in the debate?
Well, I thought I would have to call on the Holy Spirit to guide me, but luckily the officials tell me that the debate will take place tonight.
I did not know, but with full confidence in the team of officials, I can tell you that tonight, in all probability, you will be able to stay because we will be able to discuss it.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
State aid and competition policy
Mr President, I would just like to give a brief justification for this motion.
As you know, we have had several timetabling problems and postponements today and not only today but also in the run up to the debate of these four reports.
Everyone who attended the preliminary discussions of the von Wogau, Rapkay, Jonckheer and Langen reports in committee is aware of the importance of competition policy and of future internal market policy to the future development of the economy and to growth and employment in Europe.
Our view is that, given the importance which the work of the European Union and which our relations with Member States, undertakings and workers will have in the future, all four reports should be debated in detail in plenary and substantiated vis-à-vis the public at a more convenient time.
These four reports do not, primarily, represent the culmination of processes; they are important contributions to the future debate on development.
I therefore move, on the grounds of timetabling problems and the importance of these four reports to competition policy, that we deal with them during the first part-session next year, i.e. in January, preferably on Tuesday in Strasbourg and I ask you on behalf of all the rapporteurs to support this motion.
Thank you very much, Mr Karas.
We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the PPE-DE Group.
(Parliament approved the request)
Late payment in commercial transactions
The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0099/1999) on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive combating late payment in commercial transactions [8790/1999 - C5-0125/1999 - 1998/0099(COD)] (rapporteur: Mr Murphy)
I would like to commend this second reading to the House.
It is very much about prosperity, and about creating jobs in the European Union, particularly for our small and medium-sized enterprises, by creating a better business climate for those businesses.
Paradoxically, I do not want this report to be used.
In fact I would like to see it go out of fashion very quickly indeed.
This sort of Directive should be changing the climate of our business economy, away from late payment to prompt payment.
We actually want a culture in this European Union, in our single market, of prompt payment, not late payment.
I would like to place on record a number of thanks before I address the substance of our second reading: thanks to Parliament's services for working so quickly on this report; to the Commission for all its support; and to the Finnish Presidency for the courteous and careful advice it has given through this process.
Thanks also to colleagues on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy with whom I have worked very closely, several of whom I see here in this Chamber this evening.
In particular, thanks to UEAPME who are very much the voice of small businesses in the European Union and who have given wholehearted support to this proposal.
One further vote of thanks is also due, and that is actually to a ghost of this Chamber: that is, to my former colleague and good friend Lyndon Harrison, who was rapporteur at first reading, now Lord Harrison of Chester.
It was Lyndon Harrison who, as rapporteur on 16 September 1998, said to this House: "It is time to outlaw cheating practices and give small and medium-sized enterprises the confidence to go boldly into the single European market knowing that they will be paid on time and in full."
I could not agree more.
I have to say, from our position as a Parliament, that the Council's common position was a disappointment - especially when you consider that we share the same aim.
Yet because we share the same aim, and because there is goodwill on both sides, I am confident that we will have an effective and efficient directive that will eventually be adopted.
However, it is important to point out that there are large areas of difference between us.
These include the rate of statutory interest to be charged when a late payment occurs; the length of the trigger period for interest if no contract has actually stipulated a payment period; retention of title in the course of late payment; the role of the public sector and the treatment of public procurement; and compensation claims arising from late payment.
All these areas are very difficult and could cause problems between Parliament and Council.
Nevertheless, it is my belief that they are integral to our aim and are broadly safe and sound, and will help create a better business climate for small and medium-sized enterprises as they develop to realise their full potential within the single market.
Shortly after I was elected to this House, Mr President, one of my first pleasurable duties was to bring to the Parliament representatives from Dudley Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which was then in my constituency.
They came to a hearing on late payments that was being organised in the Parliament and gave some very good expert advice, recognising that we had problems with late payment in the single market.
Those problems have actually got worse, which is why we currently have a directive and a proposal before us this evening.
The importance of this directive is that it will help us address that business climate, to have a cultural change so that we move away from late payment to prompt payment as the norm within the European single market and not, as it currently is, the other way around.
The small and medium-sized enterprises of the European Union are watching very closely to see how we react to this particular proposal and the common position.
They will expect from this House tomorrow a strong vote backing the vote that was carried in the Industry Committee unanimously on Monday of this week.
With those opening remarks, Mr President, I would commend our position to you.
Mr President, at this moment in time millions of small and medium-sized enterprises are watching us and the eyes of even more millions of workers in the European Union are turned anxiously towards us.
We are being called upon to deal with a most serious matter.
I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Murphy, for the excellent spirit of cooperation which we had and to congratulate the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy for its full and unanimous support for our joint effort.
We must all, Parliament, Commission and Council, reflect on the responsibilities which face us.
We must bear in mind that one in four SMEs which goes bankrupt does so because of late payments.
We must be aware of the fact that 450 000 workers have lost their jobs at a time when the main problem facing the European Union is how to combat unemployment.
We must bear in mind that every citizen in the European Union owes 65 euros due to late payments.
We must bear in mind that we owe it to this society and to the entrepreneurial spirit of the European Union to give them the chance to develop on a sound basis.
We must also understand that we cannot permit the unfair practice whereby companies or even the public sector, which is the worst payer there is in the European Union, are financed free of charge, thereby condemning thousands of enterprises to death, stagnation or entrepreneurial castration.
What we are now being called upon to do is to restore conditions of healthy competition.
We do not intend to protect anyone.
However, we do intend to set up a framework of fair practices, to try and lay down rules of healthy competition so that we can all use our abilities and skills to face the future with better prospects.
I want us all to understand that several more thousand jobs are at stake if we back-pedal on this report which we are being called to vote upon.
I received a call today from an organisation representing thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises to say that they wished to congratulate the European Parliament on behalf of European business people.
That is precisely what we are waiting for here.
That is precisely what we are attempting to do and I call on the European Parliament, where we have the honour of sitting, to vote by a large majority in favour of the text tomorrow, I call on the Commission to do justice to the text which we give it during its evaluation and, above all, I call on the Council to understand that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that we are above the law, that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that we are sensitive to the issue of job creation, that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the economy and, at the same time, refuse to vote in favour of and adopt the positions of this European Parliament.
Mr President, the globalisation of our economy that is underway, and of which completion of the single market is a part, is made up of regional districts and energy centres which, by managing to form a network, become international.
In order to achieve completion, globalisation needs clear, simple and effective rules which, until now, our businesses and our craft industries have not been able to take advantage of in an area as important as commercial transactions.
The Council' s position, which was presented at second reading, is still weak on this point and, in particular, it does not shield small and medium-sized businesses and craft industries from the inefficiency of public machinery and from the excessive power of big businesses.
The amendments that Parliament has tabled are intended to fill this serious gap and have an ambitious objective: the creation of a legislative structure which, while careful not to create pointless bureaucratic complications, will allow the sizeable productive forces of the Union to flourish in the internal market, thereby facilitating their activities on the global market too.
The most significant innovations we wish to introduce are the following: careful consideration of the consequences of late payment for perishable foods; recognition of the right to demand compensation for costs incurred from debt collection too; retention of title clauses by the vendor; to ensure that an enforceable title can be obtained normally within 60 days of the lodging of the creditor' s action; and finally, greater transparency in the relationship between the contracting authority and the contractor, and also in a subcontractual relationship.
This group of amendments may mark the beginning of a real cultural change in the current relationship between debtor and creditor.
My final observation is of a purely political nature.
In the last few days there has been a lot of talk about the role and future of the Community institutions, but I would like to remind you that the credibility of a structure such as Parliament or the Council is closely linked to its ability to resolve the problems that trouble citizens in their everyday life, or to take positive action on these matters.
I would like to compliment and congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Murphy, and the committee, on the work they have done on this.
Although we are a small House tonight this is a terribly important subject.
It cannot be said too often that small businesses do not have deep pockets and so have greater difficulty riding out cash-flow crises than bigger ones.
They often have to wait for money to come in before paying their own suppliers.
If payments are delayed it has a knock-on effect.
Sometimes they are dependent on one large customer.
If this client delays or defaults on payments, that can mean the equivalent of a whole month's work lost, with potentially catastrophic effects.
Worse still there is often no real redress.
Though there is a statutory right, for example in the United Kingdom, to impose interest on late payments, there is practically no way to enforce this and court action is impractical to recover small debts.
We need to have some form of enforcement machinery.
There is also the difficulty of different payment terms across the European Union - 30 days in some places, 90 in others.
The compromise of 60 days seems to me a sensible arrangement.
It is grand that the Commission has put its shoulder behind the wheel of speeding up commercial payments but it is far from the case that the Commission is beyond reproach itself.
The Ombudsman' s report highlighted many instances of late payments to suppliers by the Commission.
This point was addressed in the communication from Commissioner Liikanen and another concerning time limits.
I am glad that the Commission is seeking to improve its own procedures to reduce late payments as I would like to see it put its house in order.
I had a letter from a distinguished academic the other day pointing out that persons coming to give reports are often kept waiting for their expenses money for several months.
This is unacceptable.
We must make sure that the Commission does as well as it expects others to do.
Mr President, when the common position arrived here, as the former shadow rapporteur of my group, I felt slightly abandoned by the rapporteur of first reading who had left this House.
When it also transpired that the file of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs had been passed on to the Industry Committee, then I felt completely orphaned, but the coordinator and the new EPP shadow rapporteur have adopted me in the Industry Committee for a short while, which made up for a lot of things and for which I would like to express my thanks to both.
I would also like to say a word of thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Murphy, who has done a sterling job.
Mr President, the common position is better than the original proposal.
The Industry Committee, however, has incorporated a few more amendments and I hope that they can be conciliated swiftly because the SMEs are desperate for the entry into effect of this directive, but quality should come before speed.
The report meets with my full approval.
I still have questions but only with regard to the bill of exchange, Amendment No 18.
I am aware that the bill of exchange is used in one of our Member States as a means to counter excessive payments.
However, I do think that the bill of exchange is too strict an instrument.
It is an unconditional order to pay a certain sum on a certain day and even if there are serious reasons for challenging the claim, one cannot refer to them as the debtor.
If the bill also needs to be guaranteed and accepted by a bank, then this becomes an expensive business.
Personally, I hold the opinion that we should confine ourselves to judicial review on account of unreasonable terms.
I would like to know the Commissioner' s opinion regarding this Amendment No 18.
Mr President, first of all I want to thank you.
A few parliamentarians will know the file very well.
The Commission's proposal for a directive on late payments contains a package of measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions in the European Community.
The directive applies to late payment between all enterprises including the public sector.
It provides the legal framework to deter late payers from paying late or from imposing unduly long payment periods on their partners.
Moreover, it renders the procedures for recovering debts quicker and more efficient.
The common position agreed by the Council in July of this year has cut six operational articles of our proposal down to two.
I am conscious of the fact that it is not easy for Member States to agree to changes in their legislation.
However, the Commission has indicated that it would like to see a more ambitious approach to late payment.
Without ambitious provisions, the directive will not reach its objective.
I therefore welcome the interest Parliament has taken in our proposal and I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Murphy, and the coordinators of the other political groups, on their excellent work.
Turning now to the proposed amendments, I welcome most of them as they revive many of the Commission's original proposals and try to correct deficiencies in the common position.
In this respect the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 to 17, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 26.
There are other amendments where the Commission agrees with most of the substance but would prefer to reformulate them.
This is the case with Amendments Nos 6, 20 and 25.
In particular we would like to reduce the number of reports that the Commission is being asked to produce in Amendment No 25.
It is better to use that time to pay bills more quickly, as was said by Mr MacCormick.
Finally, there are a very few amendments which the Commission cannot accept for specific reasons, and these are Amendments Nos 2, 18 and 23.
Mrs Thyssen has just spoken about Amendment No 18.
We do not think that Amendment No 18, concerning a debtor' s obligation to furnish a bill of exchange in the case of a long contractual payment period has a chance of being accepted by the Council.
In fact it seems that this amendment is inspired by the law of one Member State and that the proposed rule has not worked well so far in that state.
As a result, 15 Member States have opposed the proposal.
We would also prefer not to modify Article 4 on the duration of recovery procedures.
The discussion in the Council was a difficult one.
We believe that the result is satisfactory.
Reducing the duration from 90 to 60 days, as proposed in Amendment No 23, would have the consequence of causing the Council to revert to the old version of the Commission proposal and exclude the period needed by the debtor for his defence. This would add some 30 days for most countries and the result would be similar to the one we now have.
To summarise, the Commission expects that this proposal will bring significant benefits to businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
Reducing late payment will improve businesses' cash flow.
It will also reduce financing costs caused by being paid late and the heavy administrative cost of pursuing debts.
I hope that early next year we can come back to the broader issues of enterprise policy.
We need a new enterprise policy atmosphere in Europe and an environment where creating small and medium-sized enterprises will be easier and cheaper, and will be encouraged.
That is the only chance for Europe to guarantee that our unemployment figures, which are too high, will be reduced.
We need a lively, growing SME sector.
Let this proposal be one part of this new approach.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Bovine animals and beef: identification, registration and labelling
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0101/1999) by Mr Papayannakis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 820/97 establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and regarding the labelling of beef and beef products [COM(1999) 487 - C5-0241/1999 - 1999/0205(COD)].
Mr Goodwill has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President, on a point of order, although we are not joined by the Council representative tonight, could I ask whether the Commission or a representative of Parliament's secretariat are aware of press agency reports I have seen which state that the decision to extend the voluntary scheme for 12 months was actually made in the Council yesterday, circumventing the codecision procedure and making this debate and the vote tomorrow irrelevant?
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President. I wish to speak on the same point.
I do not take the view that the debate here and hence the vote tomorrow are irrelevant. Quite the contrary.
What I would like clarified for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and because the Council is not here I would be happy to hear it from Commissioner Byrne before the debate, is this: how are we to interpret these announcements and the Council conclusions before us.
Obviously the Council has decided that, if we react to the regulation presented by the Commission with proposed amendments, it may not agree to the simplified procedure, i.e. to accept this postponement under the codecision procedure.
It would then approve another proposal from the Commission, drafted in accordance with the old Regulation 820, article 19 of which establishes implementing provisions which allow a postponement of one year.
The Council has apparently decided, should the Commission make this formal proposal, to agree to it.
So, obviously what we have here is a twin-track approach by the Commission and we are naturally curious to know, Commissioner Byrne, now that we are in the middle of a codecision procedure, if the Commission is using a twin-track approach to circumvent this codecision by announcing a different approach to the Council.
I would be most obliged if you could tell me if you condone this approach by the Council, whereby a simplified codecision procedure can only be approved if Parliament does not exercise its right to amend the text presented by the Commission to the Council, in which case we must conclude that, if we exercise that right we are, to all intents and purposes, out of the codecision procedure!
We would like this point cleared up by the Commissioner before the debate.
I am sorry, Commissioner, but I must put this question to you; the Council is not here and we would like this cleared up before the debate and before tomorrow' s vote.
I repeat that I consider that this debate and tomorrow' s vote, i.e. the postponement, are urgently needed.
I disagree in this respect with the previous speaker, but I share his view that this needs to be clarified.
Mr President, I am not quite sure what I am being asked to do at this stage.
If it is agreeable to you and Members of Parliament I could address you on the issues I have come to address you on or alternatively answer the question that has been asked, in so far as I can, by the two previous speakers in relation to the issues raised in the Council yesterday.
As Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf very rightly points out, I am not here to answer on behalf of the Council, but in so far as I can assist Parliament I would be very happy to do so.
I have with me a copy of the conclusions which were suggested by the Presidency yesterday.
Before I read that document I should point out that what I am about to read amounts to a political orientation taken by the Council yesterday.
The Council recognised that this issue was being discussed today in Parliament.
Therefore, they deferred any decision on this issue until after Parliament had discussed the issue.
The matter will then go back to the one of the Councils before the end of the year, taking into account the decision of Parliament today.
However, if it is of assistance to Parliament I would be very happy to read this document which amounts to a political orientation rather than a conclusion or a decision of the Council yesterday.
The Council, after having examined the Commission proposal aiming at postponing for one year (from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2000) the introduction of a compulsory beef labelling system and maintaining during this period the voluntary labelling scheme provided for in Regulation (EC) No 820/97, has adopted the following conclusions:
(1) The Council agrees on the following common orientation: the Commission proposal is acceptable without any other amendment than the addition of Article 37 to Article 152, paragraph 4(b) as a legal basis;
(2) Should the opinion which will be delivered by the European Parliament within the first reading of the codecision procedure correspond to the above common orientation, the Council shall accept this outcome and therefore adopt the proposed act thus amended;
(3) If this were not the case, the legislative act could not be adopted before 31 December 1999;
(4) The Council notes that in this hypothesis the Commission intends to submit a proposal having the same objective, but based on Article 19, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EC) No 820/97;
(5) The Council has considered a working document prepared by the Commission services in this perspective - 14015/99 - and noted a large majority in favour of the substance of the text;
(6) Should the Commission submit a formal proposal for a Council regulation corresponding to the text of the working document which received the support of the Council, the Council shall adopt such proposed regulation before 31 December 1999;
(7) The Council will do its utmost in order to have a decision on a labelling provision as soon as possible in consultation with the European Parliament.
That is the orientation of the Agriculture Council yesterday.
They have refrained from making a decision in deference to Parliament's discussions here today and the decision is open to Parliament to take tomorrow.
Mr President, having heard the text read by Mr Byrne, of which I have a copy here before me, there is indeed little point in this debate.
Mr Byrne, it is not true that the Council has not taken any decisions.
The Council has decided on a year' s postponement.
It says so.
The Council has decided that it knows that the Commission - in other words you - will present another solution which we know nothing about.
You know what it is, they know that you will present it to them, that it will be a good solution, that it will approve it by 31 December and that it will approve it without codecision.
That too is a Council decision.
Consequently, you are trying to fool us here.
Despite all this, I still have to present my report to you.
We approved Regulation No 820 in 1997.
It makes provision for the identification and registration of bovine animals - this was during the "mad cow" crisis - and it was decided on and entered into force on 1 July 1997.
It makes provision for labelling of beef and beef products: voluntary labelling until 31 December 1999 and compulsory labelling as of 1 January 2000.
I should point out, just so that we are clear on this, that the voluntary scheme in each country or in certain countries will obviously not become the compulsory system throughout the Union.
The transition from the voluntary to the compulsory scheme is effected by approving implementary regulations which should have been drafted by the Commission and which should be approved by 1 January 2000.
As yet, nothing has been approved.
Consequently, as of 1 January 2000 we must expect to have a sort of legal vacuum and chaos and confusion on the market.
Why?
Because the Member States have been late sending in the reports which they were required to send to the Commission and the Commission has failed to do its work.
Then the Commission comes along on 15 November and tells us, "We are unable to complete, please can we postpone for a year" , adding that this will be on a new legal basis, Article 152 of the Treaty, which is quite right following the Amsterdam Treaty.
This development puts Parliament in a very difficult position, Mr President.
Either we accept exactly what the Commission tells us, i.e. we postpone for a year and then codecide on the implementary regulations, or we make amendments, in which case, the Council tells us, these amendments cannot be accepted.
It has already told us.
If they cannot be accepted, then again we have a problem.
What did we do in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy?
We of course voiced the right criticism which, I believe, should be particularly forceful of the Commission and the Council.
We do not accept a year' s postponement.
We say it should be reduced to no more than eight months and, of course, with the amendments which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has approved, we have, Mr President, to all intents and purposes, agreed with the proposals to sideline codecision, in order to save time and ensure that a compulsory agreement is reached quickly.
We have seen what the Council has decided, it has discounted all of this as impossible.
It has already said that it is going to postpone for a year and that it is waiting for the famous proposals which the Commission is hiding up its sleeve and which will solve the problem of implementation.
I think, Mr President, that things have come to a pretty pass.
I do not think that any of the procedures being proposed guarantee that we will proceed more quickly towards compulsory labelling.
I imagine that the Council will soon meet in extraordinary session, probably before Christmas, and will do something to ensure that there is no vacuum, chaos and confusion.
However, codecision has been sidelined and perhaps we are partly to blame.
I think, Mr President, that it is only logical after all this to envisage the possibility of going to Court, because these are clear infringements of the legislation.
I personally think that there is no guarantee that we will proceed more quickly.
However, I recommend the solution proposed by the Committee on Environment and I hope that we will proceed more quickly, albeit using dubious methods, towards compulsory labelling.
We have seen today how important it is in resolving differences between Member States and, above all, and much more importantly, and this is what interests us, how important it is to consumer protection.
If we see that even with this dubious method there is no progress towards an urgent solution, I think it is unavoidable that we shall end up taking recourse to Court, if, of course, there is a majority in the House which has the political courage and resolution to do so.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the question of beef labelling here in plenary as early as February 1997.
At the time we, as the European Parliament, voted in favour of the immediate introduction of the compulsory labelling system.
However, the Council decided on an initially optional labelling system and postponed the compulsory system until January 2000.
We are now being asked to agree to a further postponement of one year, as there has been a delay in the implementation of the applicable regulation 820/97.
The Member States and the Commission alone are to blame for these delays.
The Commission justifies the delay by saying that the progress reports from the Member States, which form the basis for the general rules governing a compulsory system, were received too late.
In our opinion, the Commission and the Member States did not make a conscientious effort to ensure that the compulsory beef labelling system would enter into force as planned.
The Commission must therefore be prepared to answer the question of why it did not take the Member States to task earlier.
After all, the Member States were obliged to ensure that the conditions needed for complete proof of origin for cattle were in place and that their electronic data bases were up and running by 31 December this year.
The Commission' s contention, that the presentation of its proposal was delayed because the outcome of the case pending against the Council before the European Court of Justice on the legal basis for Regulation 820/97 has not yet been decided, is also unacceptable.
Even if the judgement had been made, it would still have been extremely difficult to complete a codecision procedure on this matter.
We cannot sanction a further postponement of one year without reservation; otherwise we may well be forced again this time next year to agree to a further postponement because some Member States have again failed to do their homework.
We will give the Member States a further eight months to catch up but the compulsory system must be definitively introduced in all Member States and for everyone marketing beef on 1 September 2000.
The Commission has time until then to submit implementing provisions for the compulsory system.
At the same time, the European Parliament and the Council will decide on a new version of Regulation 820/97 under a codecision procedure.
This approach will enable the compulsory system to be introduced earlier than envisaged by the Commission in its proposal and will give all those concerned sufficient time to find a lasting and satisfactory solution.
In conclusion, I should like once again to thank my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for taking account of the amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; I think it is important, here and now, for the European Parliament to speak with one voice and to send out a clear signal on this matter of fundamental importance to consumers.
I would also like, once again, to thank all those who have worked on this and the services for their fast work and self-sacrifice.
The last decades of the twentieth century have been punctuated by a series of food scares.
In many cases genuine concerns are blown out of proportion as the media indulge in a feeding frenzy, seldom letting the facts get in the way of a good story.
Maybe we do not have enough journalists with a scientific background able to quantify issues like risk or possibly, as I suspect, a sensational front page headline which will sell a newspaper is more important than giving consumers information on which to judge their buying decisions.
Product labelling is one important way in which this misinformation can be countered.
It is, of course, possible to go too far and give technical data that confuses rather than informs.
When the details of this and other directives are considered I hope we can have at the back of our minds the mother trailing two or three irritable children around the supermarket. She does not have time to read a detailed data sheet.
She needs to see at a glance the information on the origin, production method and other details in a simple, unambiguous way.
At present food labelling is at best vague, at worst deliberately misleading.
For example, one could be forgiven for thinking that bacon labelled "packed in the UK" was produced in Britain under our most stringent welfare standards; not so.
And shepherd's pie labelled "product of the UK" may contain beef from Botswana, Zimbabwe or anywhere else in the world.
This is not good enough.
Labelling rules should address these problems.
I now come to the intolerable situation we find ourselves in today regarding the extension of the voluntary beef labelling scheme.
What would be the attitude of the EU if it were a company, not a country, that chose to ignore legislation which other similar businesses were complying with?
The full force of the law would be unleashed of course.
We have the situation that 12 of the 15 Member States have not introduced a voluntary system of beef labelling and are therefore not in a position to move to a compulsory scheme in January.
The Commission blames the Member States for not providing information about the lack of action in time for the proper democratic procedures to ensue.
They should, however, have been aware of how the situation was developing and I am sure a few telephone calls would soon have put the Commission in the picture.
Today, despite the fact that both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment of this Parliament were asked to consider this extension, the Council has decided to ignore this House and change the legal basis for this decision, despite the fact that the amendments proposed were both practical and reasonable and could have been adopted under codecision.
This is an insult to the Members of the European Parliament.
It is particularly important, finally, that consumers know where the beef they are consuming comes from.
In the wake of the BSE crisis we must make it simple for people to identify the safest beef available, which is, of course, British.
Could I also urge Commissioner Byrne to introduce a compensation scheme for British beef farmers who are being hit by the illegal action of the French Government?
The cost of this scheme can be recouped from the French when, as surely as day follows night, they lose their court case.
British farmers need help now, not the promise of compensation later when some of them will be bankrupt and beyond help.
Mr President, we return for the second time today to the grave crisis over beef, its safety and circulation within this Union under the rule of law.
All of us believe that we need the measures which were promised by the Commission back in 1997.
We need them especially because of the crisis through which we are passing.
The issue of the identification of beef products and the certainty that they can be relied upon is as much at the heart of the dispute between France and the European Union as it is at the heart of the concerns of safety which have preoccupied both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment over the last two years.
I want to congratulate Mr Papayannakis on his patience over the last few weeks.
We are all concerned about the apparent fait accompli in the statement by the Council.
We are having this debate in a legislative vacuum if we have no flexibility of amendment.
We see Regulation No 820/97 slipping away from us into a morass of half-observed voluntary practices with no immediate prospects of the compulsory scheme which every Member of this House knows is necessary.
That is partly a result of Member State inertia, but I cannot exempt the Commission from its own responsibilities.
They far pre-date Mr Byrne's arrival in office.
But now, as he has to clear up this mess, we ought to hear from him how he will do so.
The amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy set out to remedy this with a remission of eight months maximum.
Some of our amendments clarified and strengthened Article 152 as the legal base.
Today the Council is urging that Article 37 be added to the legal base.
This is surely an issue of health and consumer protection.
I want to hear from Commissioner Byrne that he will be the defender of everything that was implied in Article 152 once it is added to the Treaty.
The whole point of this is that it gives us a right to intervene, a right to be consulted and to be participants in the process of codecision.
That right, so recently granted to Parliament post-Amsterdam, is now being snatched away.
That has been the cri de coeur of Mr Papayannakis throughout our discussions in the Environment Committee.
It is an absolutely scandalous state of affairs that we are sitting here in a nine-tenths empty parliamentary Chamber, one week before Christmas, seeing a regulation which will come into effect no-one knows when or how, with a Council which is treating us with an aloof contempt.
I do not believe it is good enough.
I do not believe Mr Byrne thinks so either.
Mr President, it is morally reprehensible and completely unacceptable that the EU Commission is to shelve consumers' justified demands to know about the origin of the foods we all eat.
The EU Parliament ought to put the screws on and ensure that all EU countries label beef and register cattle.
Back in 1997, the governments of the EU countries resolved in the Council to implement labelling and registration.
This has unfortunately only happened in fairly few countries, and there is a tremendous amount of trouble getting the resolution implemented in a number of other countries where not even a start has been made on setting up a labelling system.
For the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, it is crucially important that consumers' confidence should not merely be preserved but also increased, that public health should be protected and that the quality of foodstuffs should be high.
It is therefore completely unacceptable that the Commission should not have put this important area in order.
Consumers should be able to rely upon the quality of the beef they buy, and they can only do that if it is possible to monitor the animal concerned from its birth until such time as the beef ends up on the dinner table.
That is to say, the animal' s country of origin, the country in which it was slaughtered, the name of the abattoir and the identity of the butchers should be known.
The Commission' s proposal to postpone compulsory labelling and registration is quite unacceptable.
We can support Mr Heinz Kindermann' s opinion and we also expect at least EUR 15 million to be allocated for the purpose, for it is an urgent matter to get these arrangements in place.
Mr President, Mr Byrne, you have presented the Council decision to us here today.
I agree with you that this is really the task of the Council, but I would like to refer to the seventh point, which says that there must be a labelling provision as soon as possible in consultation with the European Parliament.
I consider this passage to be cynical, given that this paper again excludes the European Parliament from codecision.
It is the same approach as that taken in 1997 when the Commission proposed codecision to us and Parliament and the Commission tabled a proposal.
We made a great deal of effort only to see the Council unanimously reject the proposal and decide without Parliament.
That meant that the Council had taken over responsibility.
The Council failed to fulfil its responsibility to implement what it itself had decided in Article 19, namely to issue implementing provisions on 1.1.2000.
Then Parliament was again taken to task and again it fulfilled its obligation.
We have not moaned and groaned, we have sat down and got on with the work - on the subject of which, Mr Papayannakis, heartfelt thanks to you as rapporteur and to Mr Kindermann, the rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture, and to the administration and legal service.
Everyone has made an effort!
There was good coordination between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment.
We negotiated with the Commission.
We put our cards on the table and said, excuse me, but we have a contribution to make to this procedure.
The result: do or die!
If you want to be part of the procedure, then you must divorce yourself from it as far as the content is concerned, otherwise we will not accept your case!
Mr Byrne, you said earlier that the decision now rests with Parliament.
This means that if we adopt what you have submitted to us, then it will go through.
If we table amendments which really are justified, over which we have taken time and trouble, then you will decide without us.
This is a snub to Parliament by the Council which we are not prepared to accept.
Now to the role of the Commission.
The Commission has told us that there is no longer any time for implementing provisions.
Please, indulge us!
We are indulgent and where does it get us?
Since the way in which we have amended it obviously does not suit you, you go on to the next proposal by introducing the compulsory system under Article 19, saying at the same time that the voluntary system will be extended by one year, thereby excluding Parliament from the process.
That too is a snub to Parliament which we cannot accept.
We take the view that Article 19 does not legally allow this postponement.
We have been involved in a procedure since the 1997 decision and we shall most probably find ourselves involved in a procedure again after this decision, which means, furthermore that it would be in the consumers' interest to draw up an urgently needed timetable with us in order to ensure the reasonable and timely application of this compulsory labelling system.
Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and to open with the comment that an early and satisfactory resolution of the controversy surrounding food safety is of paramount importance to consumers, to our farmers and indeed to the food industry.
Already the fall-out from BSE has cost farmers millions of pounds and left consumers both confused and bewildered.
While not detracting from the seriousness of the situation, the impact on consumer confidence has been far greater in my view than the actual threat to public health.
It is for this reason that we must quickly put beyond doubt the safety of all food, including beef, through a credible and totally transparent traceability programme.
Delays at this stage are unacceptable and Parliament must keep up the pressure on the Council and on Member States to conform fully with our revised food laws.
It has been agreed to accept the recommendations of the Scientific Committee as the basis for all decisions on the public health aspect of food production.
To do otherwise in my view would be to politicise unnecessarily what is now a priority EU agenda and indeed would do nothing to restore consumer and farmer confidence.
I sat through an earlier debate relating to this today and one might wonder whether Parliament is united in accepting the basic principle of the recommendations of the Scientific Committee.
From a consumer perspective, labelling is, of course, part of the resolution of this problem.
It must be clear, it must be understandable: a point that has been made here on many occasions, but it is not the answer to the public health aspect of food production.
I believe our farmers - and, if I may say so, particularly Irish farmers - have no difficulty in producing a product of the highest quality and safety.
In many respects they have been made the scapegoats in the present controversy and are certainly paying a high price for a crisis that was not of their direct making.
I very much welcome the leadership provided by the new Commissioner, Mr Byrne, and his commitment to the establishment of an EU food safety agency.
I know, Commissioner, that you are doing everything possible to bring this proposal to fruition as quickly as possible and it is very important that you do so.
The European agricultural model, based on family farms, in my view provides the infrastructure necessary to give our consumers quality and choice.
That particular concept of the agricultural model has been debated and agreed on by our Committee on Agriculture and indeed by Parliament too. It has been reflected in the Agenda 2000 proposals.
I want to make the point that in our anxiety to protect consumers we must be equally careful not to over-regulate a sector which has the capacity to produce a diverse range of quality food.
In my view there is no substitute for the quality of beef, lamb and pork produced by European farmers.
This fact must be fully reflected in the trade talks still to get under way in Seattle, where our competitors in world trade will have a vested interest in frustrating our efforts to put our agriculture and food sector on a sound and competitive footing.
Mr President, Commissioner, as far as the labelling of beef is concerned, we are not debating the substance here today but the timetable, which needs to be laid down.
We are also debating the highly topical issue of the Council' s approach and the Commission' s behaviour and position.
The Commission has submitted two proposals to us on beef labelling, one which makes beef labelling compulsory in Member States as of 1 January 2001 and one which is drafted as a transitional regulation up to 31 December 2000, i.e. voluntary labelling.
The timetable submitted by the Commission must be rejected in the interests of the consumer.
Mr Kindermann has submitted what I consider to be a convincing timetable.
The European Parliament should agree to voluntary labelling up to 31 August 2000, with compulsory labelling to be introduced as quickly as possible.
Only in this way can we send out a clear signal to anxious consumers.
There can be no question of continuing to allow the slowest link in the chain to set the pace.
Nor can there be any question of the new Commission continuing to hide behind what to me look very like the old delaying tactics.
The delay in the implementation of the regulation cannot be ascribed solely to the Commission and individual Member States.
In other words, this approach would have been totally unnecessary if the Commission had acted promptly at the time.
Then there is the point that the applicable Regulation 820/97 still contains the obligation to introduce the compulsory system by 1 January 2000.
The Commission' s excuse for the delay is that the Member States were late sending in the necessary reports on the implementation of the labelling system.
I really do wonder if the model pupils in the Member States are again being punished here.
We must not tolerate this cat-and-mouse game by the Commission any longer!
You should know, Mr Byrne, that none of us can afford to put on such airs and graces.
You should bear in mind that we really want to decide on this proposal under the codecision procedure.
Consumer interests must come first.
Consequently, we should, in my opinion, support the timetable suggested by Mr Kindermann in tomorrow' s vote.
With this timetable we really can send a signal to our anxious consumers and we should all bear in mind that we sit here as the representatives of the people, that we have been elected by the consumers and that it is we Members of Parliament who must lay ourselves open time and again to discussions with our citizens.
I have the impression that the Council has already distanced itself from them by quite some way.
Mr President, the European Parliament is in favour of these measures and has also shown that it is in favour of operating in a flexible way so that these measures are implemented effectively.
But the European Parliament is against the use of deadlines as an excuse for this measure never being implemented.
The manoeuvring of the Council and its secrecy with Parliament, Mr President, are increasing our suspicions in this respect to the point where we almost want to accuse them of having something to hide.
Neither do I share the euphoria of those who think that, by means of labels, we are going to do away with food fraud, nor do I share the fears of those who think that this is a form of renationalisation.
It is simply a measure which will offer the consumer more information, and that is significant, Mr President, at a time when, in the European Union, confidence in food safety has been eroded.
Therefore, we believe that the Council has made a big mistake and must put it right as soon as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, only last week did the annual BAMST workshop take place at the University of Ghent.
BAMST stands for Belgian Association for Meat Science and Technology.
This year' s theme was traceability, a means to guarantee the quality of meat and meat products.
Professor Jan Van Hoof gave a clear overview of the situation in Belgium in terms of traceability of meat and it should be said: there is finally some good news from the Belgian federation.
Together with France and Finland, we are the only country which has completed the implementation of the present directive.
However, what the Council and Commission are trying to dish up here today beggars belief.
I support the observations made by all those who have intervened in the debate so far.
This joint protest from our Committees on Agriculture and the Environment ensures that we want to put a stop to the Commission' s proposals and rightly so.
A three-year delay for a compulsory regulation is unacceptable to us.
Even a one year delay is.
Let there be no mistake: we want the compulsory regulation in place by 1 September.
Let this be a warning to the Council.
If necessary, we will call on the Court of Justice.
This is a violation of Community Law; a gross insult.
I therefore urge all those present to fully approve rapporteur Papayannakis' report.
We will take a hard line on this.
After all, we want to use compulsory labelling as a means to help those who want to restore consumer confidence in meat.
This should happen sooner rather than later.
Mr President, as I am the last to speak, I shall not repeat what everyone else has said.
I would first like to answer the English Member this evening, as there are not many of us and we are all friends here, without stirring up any controversy.
I have already said in this Chamber that British and Irish farmers are in a difficult situation and we must help them.
We must work out who should pay and we must make the calculations together.
If France has to pay - and perhaps the courts will decide that it must - French politicians will accept their responsibilities, but neither should we forget that those who have not respected the rules on the treatment of meal and who have placed us in this situation must also pay.
We must certainly not forget them.
Commissioner, my only concern is that the 1997 political commitment not be jeopardised.
Why is the Council taking a step backwards?
Who are the pressure groups?
Knowing, as we do, what has happened throughout the European meat industry and what is still happening in other countries, I wonder.
Are there pressure groups forcing it to move backwards, to go back on what has already been done in this industry in terms of labelling and also in terms of the consumer in order to clarify things?
Can you tell us Commissioner, what proposals you have presented to the Council?
Because normally, unless I am mistaken, the Commission makes several proposals to the Council when discussions are held, as was the case yesterday.
How do you expect the citizen and consumer to understand this backwards step?
Why is the Council rejecting Parliament' s proposal?
These are certainly not budgetary measures.
As far as abattoirs and traceability are concerned, I think that the Council is adopting a contrary attitude, and will have to accept sole responsibility.
I agree with today' s speakers that Parliament must make the Council aware of this.
I am therefore counting on you, Commissioner, to act rapidly - and this will be our New Year present for the end of 1999 and in that way Parliament will not be disappointed at the beginning of 2000.
You can still intervene and you can still change the Council' s mind.
The second point which I would like to draw to your attention before the start of 2000 is this: let us not wait until December, as we have waited this year until November, to put a definitive regulation on the table. This will enable us to apply it as rapidly as possible, for which, moreover, Mr Papayannakis' excellent report makes provision.
Let me begin with a word of apology for my delayed arrival this afternoon.
Unfortunately, weather conditions in Brussels led to the cancellation of this morning's flight and therefore I was unable to be present in person to update Parliament on the BSE dispute.
This has led I know to a change in the schedule of Parliamentary business with this important debate now taking place late in the evening.
I have been informed of all the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on this proposal.
I would like to congratulate Mr Papayannakis, the rapporteur, and Mr Kindermann, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The business before us is the Commission proposal to extend the existing voluntary labelling requirements under Regulation (EC) No 820/97 for a further year.
I am very aware that Parliament is deeply unhappy that a compulsory labelling regime is not in place as envisaged with effect from 1 January 2000.
I note that there is a proposed amendment which criticises the Commission and certain Member States for this delay.
However there were good and justifiable reasons for this delay.
Firstly, Member States did not submit the required reports on existing arrangements in sufficient time.
Secondly, not all Member States will be in a position to establish reliable registration and identification systems for all animals.
Finally, the last Commission took a decision, following its resignation, not to present any major new political initiatives and I understand that Parliament agreed with that proposal.
This Commission was therefore faced with a very difficult situation.
There was a very tight deadline, 1 January 2000, within which to agree a proposal laying down general rules for a compulsory system to apply from that date.
Quite simply, with the best will in the world, this deadline cannot be met.
The proposal has been made under the codecision procedure but full agreement between the Community institutions cannot be expected for several months.
This is the minimum time necessary to agree such important issues.
In these circumstances, the Commission also presented a second proposal to prolong the existing voluntary arrangements provided for under Regulation (EC) No 820/97. This is also in accordance with the codecision procedure.
It therefore is also confronted with the very pressing deadline of 1 January 2000.
The challenge is to reach full agreement within the next week or so.
Yesterday the Council discussed this second Commission proposal for a prolongation of the existing regime.
The Council agreed an orientation on this proposal with only one amendment - the addition of Article 37 alongside Article 152 - to the legal base.
This is, of course, a major amendment which, in my opinion, does not favour a quick conclusion to the codecision procedure.
Any amendment by Parliament to the Commission's proposal, which is contrary to the orientation agreed by the Council yesterday is equally certain to block any progress towards agreement before the end of this year.
This puts both the Parliament and the Commission in a very difficult situation.
You will be very aware of the implications.
In these circumstances, the Commission has a responsibility to act.
As already signalled, the Commission would be obliged, in order to avoid a legal void, to present a third proposal. This third proposal would be based on Article 19 of the existing Regulation (EC) No 820/97 and would prolong the existing arrangements providing for voluntary labelling.
My intention would be to examine carefully your amendments with a view to seeing in what measure they can be considered.
On this point I must underline that certain amendments which aim to shorten delays go in the direction of improved consumer protection, which of course is an issue that is close to my heart.
I can in this context accept amendments which aim to shorten the period during which the existing arrangements can continue for a period of eight months.
However, I cannot accept your amendments concerning bringing forward the labelling of place of slaughter with effect from 1 January 2000.
I have a lot of sympathy for this amendment and signal to the Council a strong wish to have it considered in their common position.
Indeed, yesterday in Council I drew the Council's attention to the fact that there was an amendment put forward by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on Monday.
However, there was virtually no support.
It is also a provision which would perhaps be better addressed in the main proposal on the general rules. This proposal is also currently before the Council and Parliament.
The Commission cannot accept the proposed amendment to drop the requirement for real debate between Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the main proposal based on Article 152 of the Treaty.
This would be the consequence if this amendment is adopted: Parliament would give up its important obligation to participate in this debate.
I should like to add that the debate is still open in relation to the Commission proposal on the general rules applying an obligatory regime.
It is in this context that the main debate should take place.
It is unfortunate that discussions of these very complex and important issues have had to take place in the context of an emergency decision with a near-impossible deadline.
The Commission is of the view that Article 152 is the appropriate legal base.
This is an extremely important and contested issue which is currently before the Court of Justice.
On this question the Commission cannot agree to the addition of Article 37.
There is little or no appetite in the Member States for a fully compulsory system from 1 January 2000.
We cannot ignore this reality, nor can we assume that we have a better idea of the obligations involved than the Member States.
Member States can choose to impose compulsory labelling for beef cattle born, raised and slaughtered on their own territory.
Only three have chosen to do so.
The Commission is in favour of full, compulsory labelling.
It is therefore proposed that it should take place from 1 January 2001 for place of slaughter and, in addition, from 1 January 2003 for place of birth and fattening.
I can assure you that I am committed to this particular proposal and to the question of compulsory labelling.
It is my intention to pursue that in the period of time I am in office, and to do so quickly.
Turning to some of the questions that were raised by some of you, I will try to give you some answers in relation to these issues.
In relation to the question raised by Mr Papayannakis when he said: "You are trying to fool us here". I am not sure if the interpreters made some kind of mistake.
I would like to place a benign interpretation on those words rather than a malign one, because they are open to the interpretation that I am attempting to mislead Parliament.
That, as you know, Mr Papayannakis, is one of the most serious charges that can be laid against anybody.
If that was your intention I reject it and resent it.
I have always been open with Parliament.
On the first day I came here, when I spoke at my hearings in September, I made it absolutely clear that it was my intention to be open and transparent with Parliament.
I have appeared in Parliament in plenary session on many occasions in the short time that I have been Commissioner.
I have appeared before committees of this House on a number of occasions also.
Never once in that period of time was any such suggestion made to me.
I do not accept it.
Mr President, it would be the easiest thing in the world for me just to apologise.
I think you misunderstood what I said.
It is not in my nature to be insulting when discussing politics.
I do not know what the interpreter said, but under no circumstances did I mean that I had a problem with you, not by any stretch of the imagination.
However, Commissioner, the essence of my political question remains and, if you would care to, please reply to it.
Did the Council decide yesterday to postpone for a year without waiting to see what we wanted, yes or no?
Did the Council decide yesterday to circumvent Parliament' s opinion, yes or no?
These are not insults, Commissioner.
They are serious conclusions based on the Council' s action.
Obviously, you have no reason in the final analysis to act as Council' s advocate.
I therefore repeat that under no circumstances did I intend any slight on your honour or your reputation and if you think that I did or if you were given any cause to do so, I apologise.
However, I repeat, the problem is how you interpret what the Council did yesterday.
You have no reason to try and defend it.
I am happy to say that I accept the explanation and apology offered by Mr Papayannakis and the gracious way in which he has done so.
Let us put it down to interpretation difficulties.
In response to his question, he is perfectly right.
I am not here to answer for Council and all I can say is that I read out the conclusions of the Council yesterday.
I should say that the Council did not adopt this as its decision, but rather said that this was its view, its orientation, but made it clear that it would have to await the outcome of Parliament's decision tomorrow on this particular issue before finally voting on the issue and adopting a position.
For that reason I understand that this issue is going back to one of the Councils before the end of this year for finalisation, having regard to what Parliament said today and what Parliament will vote on and decide tomorrow.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
BST
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0098/1999) by Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the placing on the market of bovine somatotrophin (BST) and repealing Council Decision 90/218/EEC [COM(1999) 544 - C5-0250/1999 - 1999/0219(CNS)].
Mr President, Commissioner, as the ban on placing BST on the market and administering it expires at the end of 1999, this matter has become a matter of urgency to us.
This proposal is designed to definitively prohibit the marketing of BST and its administration to dairy cows.
The Commission refers to scientific studies which confirm that the use of BST inflicts unnecessary pain on animals.
Consequently, I reject the marketing and administration of BST in the European Union, as formulated in the report, on the grounds of animal welfare.
May I remind you that all the Member States have approved and ratified an agreement on animal welfare on livestock holdings.
BST use increases the incidence of mastitis and foot and leg disorders and adversely affects reproduction in cattle.
There is also evidence of loss of profitability, premature culling and death.
The numbers speak for themselves.
BST increases the risk of mastitis by 25%, the risk of infertility by 18% and of paralysis by as much as 50%.
However, there are not only animal welfare considerations; there are also health and economic considerations which justify the withdrawal of BST.
BST is also rejected by consumers.
It is reasonable to suppose that BST could lead to a change in consumption patterns and exacerbate the imbalance in the milk, milk products and beef and veal sectors.
What is even more ridiculous is that surpluses are produced even under normal conditions.
BST is not a treatment; its only purpose is to increase milk production.
The milk quota system was introduced precisely in order to reduce milk production and now we are to take it ad absurdum with BST.
That cannot be!
Exports would also suffer.
No major buyer or producer of milk and milk products anywhere in the world has permitted the use of this hormone, apart from the USA.
We have been elected to represent our citizens and hence our consumers.
We must therefore take our duty seriously and fight on behalf of the electorate.
BST is a genetically engineered hormone.
No Member State has yet carried out field tests with BST.
It has not been established what changes could potentially occur in the composition of milk and the effects of genetic engineering on human health cannot yet be assessed.
The fact that a small number of countries have allowed the hormone to be used must not lead to a watering down of international health standards.
However, even more decisive is the fact that BST is rejected by consumers.
It is not by chance that leading supermarket chains stated, following a consumer survey in 1994, that they would not sell milk from cows treated with BST, even if the EU moratorium were lifted.
What we cannot, however, explain to consumers is that all the Member States of the European Union import a lot of BST milk products from the USA, together with products from the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Bulgaria, and that these products, for example, cheese from milk obtained this way, have been landing on our consumers' tables for a long time.
As third countries in which this hormone is permitted are not obliged to notify this officially, the Commission does not have an exhaustive list of these countries.
I think this is another challenge facing the Commission.
The Commission should check, first, if BST is harmful to human health and, secondly, how imports of BST products can be made really transparent.
The Commission proposal has no effect on the production of BST in the Member States or on imports of this substance, provided that it is to be exported to third countries.
Allow me, as your rapporteur, to conclude by saying that we all naturally find it difficult to explain to our voters that BST is already being manufactured in some Member States but that it is not used here.
I am not sure if we should go into this point too critically in public, given that jobs are at stake.
I hope - and we are at one with the Commission on this - that we can agree on this urgency and wrap the whole thing up tomorrow.
Thank you to all those who were involved.
Mr President, I am not speaking on behalf of my group.
I will vote with the majority of my group as I always do when they decide in a democratic way, but I am afraid I do not hold the same view as Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert. She made her case very well and she "threw the book at it".
There was no conceivable argument against use or about the possible dangers that might occur that she did not invoke.
I find myself in the same position I found myself in many years ago when, on the initiative of Parliament, we banned natural hormones in the production of beef. We cost the European beef producers something like EUR 12 to 15 billion.
In the meantime we did not enhance the safety of beef.
We based our decision on political ideology rather than scientific investigation.
The truth is that we ban American beef today because those hormones are there; but the truth is also that we know that, if we allowed the Americans to sell that beef into our market, at good value to our consumers, and if we were to put a label on it saying those hormones were there, they would still buy it.
We know that.
If we did not know that, why would we ban it?
Let them come with their beef and if our consumers are so concerned they would not eat it anyway.
But I do not believe they are so concerned.
It is the same with this product we propose to ban today.
It is motivated by ideology rather than science.
I believe we have a committee called the CVM.
This committee for veterinary medical products which works within the European Medicines Evaluation Agency concluded that BST was safe, efficacious and of suitable quality.
As such, they recommended that the product was suitable for release.
They found that it did not affect the health of animals and that it was a natural product that did not affect the health of human beings.
We had another committee which gave a different point of view.
My understanding is that it is the committee that gave the all-clear which is the committee on which we are relying.
The only thing I want to say to the Commissioner is, could he please tell us which advice he is taking?
Does he regard the committee whose advice he rejects as incompetent, unable to judge what is good for animals or dangerous for human health?
Is he going to dismiss them and refuse to accept their advice or opinions any more?
Mr President, today we are at last discussing the definitive ban on the administration and marketing of BST in the European Union and, hopefully, this will mark an end to the ten-year process during which the final decision has been postponed time and time again on the grounds, of course, that there was no conclusive scientific evidence which justified a definitive ban.
We are now in possession of this evidence and it confirms that the use of this hormone pushes cows to their physiological limits.
The consequences are leg and foot injuries, stomach/intestinal malfunctions and impaired fertility, not to mention the increase in mastitis.
Cows are therefore subjected to unnecessary pain.
This is unacceptable for reasons of animal welfare, but have all the risks to human health been excluded?
What about BST residues in the body which have not been broken down, what about the possible change in the composition of the milk, not to mention the increase in the antibiotics administered in order to treat the sick cows.
I would therefore like to support the rapporteur' s request that we step up efforts to clear up the question of the effect of BST on human health once and for all.
On behalf of the group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert as rapporteur for her rapid work and we, of course, emphatically support her report.
Mr President, we are able to support the rapporteur' s opinion, but I should like to make a few comments.
We agree that the investigations which have been made into animals' health are of decisive importance to our resolution and are also of decisive importance to the fact that BST ought not to be used here in the EU.
That is to say, we support Article 1.
When we talk about public health, however, I must however say that we still have a number of problems with the results of the seventeen scientific investigations which were not able to distinguish the naturally produced BST hormones from the artificially manufactured ones.
We ought not to push these scenarios further than can be justified by the scientific evidence.
Articles 2 and 3 deal with continued licence to produce the BST hormone here in the EU.
In my opinion, we are coming close here to practising a double standard.
When I think about everything that was said here this evening and in recent months about BST hormones, of the trade war with the United States and about American beef produced using hormones, I feel we are near to courting a double standard, when these hormone preparations are manufactured here in Europe and subsequently sold to the United States which then uses the BST hormone.
I cannot therefore support the wordings of Articles 2 and 3.
Mr President, I endorse the statements made by the rapporteur and Mr Kindermann and there is no need for me to repeat them.
I would like to express my satisfaction at having reached the point where, after years of discussion, we can consider the matter closed.
I should like to stress once again that we must be very careful when it comes to using genetically engineered drugs for preventative purposes.
Unlike in the health sector, no side effects can be tolerated in agricultural applications.
I should like to make another point as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We have agreed on Amendment No 3.
There was also an oral proposal for an amendment which was agreed with the Commission.
I will not go into the details, but it was not included in the report.
I should like my request for this to be clarified, entered in the Minutes and for us to have the version that we have in fact agreed upon at tomorrow' s vote.
As I have said, it was agreed with the Commission.
Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert on the report and the urgency with which she has carried it out.
I would like to stress to the Commission - which only now is delivering us a document which was drawn up at the end of October - that Parliament has had to work against the clock.
In fact, we only have a few days before the expiry of the deadline for the most recent extension of the deferral of the Regulation whose derogation by the Commission we are going to vote on.
This deadline expires on 1 January of the coming year.
Therefore, I would ask the Commission - so as not to repeat all the arguments expressed by the previous speakers - to send us documents more quickly so that we do not have to work against the clock.
I would like to stress once again that the consumers do not want BST.
Consumers refuse to accept the idea of cows producing milk containing BST. This hormone is never used for medicinal reasons.
It is only used to produce more milk, and this can cause us problems, since we have a surplus of dairy products. Furthermore, problems may arise with regard to our agriculture, as well as negative reactions to it and there may be contradictions in our new Community Agricultural Policy guidelines.
I would also like to point out to the Commission that it must continue to investigate the possible effects of BST on consumers' health.
At the moment they do not seem to be harmful, but nor do they seem to be entirely harmless.
Therefore, Commissioner, Parliament, which is working rigorously and is taking its work ever more seriously, requests that you do not make us work against the clock and that, furthermore, you take account of the reactions and proposals which we make, which often end up in the waste paper bin.
Mr President, the greatest problem I have with the text on which we are going to vote tomorrow - I have just acquired a copy - lies in article 3 of the Commission proposal, according to which we would ban these substances in the European Union. I ask the Commission to listen because I am going to ask for clarification; according to this article we would vote for a ban on these substances within the European Union, but this ban would not affect their manufacture or marketing within the European Union, since we could send them to another Member State with a view to their export to third countries.
Mr President, this is not acceptable to me, since if we ban these substances and their marketing within the European Union, as the agreement says, it would not be legal to be able to send them, within the European Union, to another Member State.
Nor would it be legal, as we are currently doing, to produce them in a Member State.
Therefore, I would ask you to clarify whether this is the case because, according to this text and according to the Commission, this ban would not affect marketing or exporting to third countries.
Mr President, I believe that this would be extremely hypocritical.
What we do not want for ourselves, we allow for others when it is a question of earning money.
I believe that everything has its limit, and if we have principles for ourselves, we must hold the same principles with regard to non-EU countries; and, of course, within the European Union, we cannot produce, manufacture or market these substances.
I should like to thank Parliament for having admitted this proposal as an urgent point so it would be dealt with before the end of this year.
As you know, the Council has already banned - in 1990 - the placing on the market and the use of BST on dairy cows under Council Decision 90/218/EEC.
The moratorium was extended by the Council in 1994 until 31 December 1999 by Council Decision 94/936/EC.
Article 2 of Council Decision 94/936/EC provided that the Commission had to entrust a working party of independent scientists with the task of assessing the effects of using BST.
Before putting a new proposal on the table of the Council the Commission was waiting for the opinions of the two scientific committees which were delivered on 18 March 1999.
The Scientific Committee on Veterinary Measures Relating to Public Health recognised that there could be possible links with prostate and breast cancer and, in view of the lack of evidence, indicated that further studies were necessary.
Secondary risks are possible: allergic reactions and an increased use of anti-microbial substances.
The lack of evidence will oblige the Commission to follow very closely all scientific research into the potential adverse affects on human health of dietary exposure to products derived from BST-treated cows and, if necessary, make recommendations for further preventative measures.
The Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare adopted on 10 March 1999 its report on animal welfare aspects of the use of bovine somatotrophin and stated that BST increases the risk of clinical mastitis as well as the duration of treatment of mastitis, it increases the incidence of foot and leg disorders and it can affect adversely reproduction and induce several severe reactions at the injection site.
Therefore it follows from that opinion of the SCAHAW that BST should not be used in dairy cows.
The protocol on protection and welfare of animals annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community calls on the Community and Member States when formulating and implementing the Community's agricultural policy to pay full regard to the health and welfare requirements of animals.
By Decision 78/923/EEC the Community approved the European Convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes.
All Member States have also ratified this convention.
Council Directive 98/58/EC concerning the protection of animals kept for farming purposes states that no other substance, with the exception of those given for therapeutic or prophylactic purposes, shall be administered to an animal unless it has been demonstrated by scientific studies of animal welfare or of established experience that the effect of the substance is not detrimental to the health or welfare of the animal.
BST is not used in cattle for therapeutic purposes but only to enhance milk production and has detrimental effects on the animals.
In the light of this opinion of the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare, the Commission - moved by me at its meeting of 28 October - adopted a decision proposing a permanent ban on the marketing and use of BST in the Community as from 1 January 2000 in accordance with the provisions laid down in Council Decision 98/58/EC on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes.
For the purpose of clarification I should say that BST is not for sale in Europe, but it is manufactured here.
There is one company manufacturing BST in the European Union.
It is authorised for export to third countries only.
It is not authorised for sale in the European Union.
I should also say that any further steps to ban its manufacture for sale outside the European Union would not have a legal base and would be something outside the competence of the Commission.
Mr President, I would like the Commissioner to clarify whether a piece of information that I have is correct. It appears that this substance is manufactured in Austria, from there it goes to Holland and from Holland it is exported to non-EU countries.
Commissioner, is it true that it is manufactured in Austria, from there goes to Holland and from Holland is exported?
The Commissioner' s words confirm that this is the case, that within the European Union we are manufacturing it and marketing it.
Yes, for clarification purposes, I can say that it is manufactured in a factory in Austria; that it is, I am instructed, bottled in the Netherlands for export to third countries, but not for sale within the European Union.
I should say that there is no legal base for preventing that particular manufacture or trans-shipment through the Netherlands for sale to third countries.
Award of the Sakharov Prize to Mr Xanana Gusmão
Mr Gusmão, on behalf of the European Parliament and myself, I must say that it is an honour and a very great pleasure for us to welcome you to this House.
We were overjoyed to hear of your release just three months ago on 7 September.
You showed admirable and unyielding courage throughout your detention which began on 20 November 1992.
You managed to retain your inner freedom despite the ill treatment which you endured, particularly in psychological terms, and which was intended to prevent you from making your defence.
During your trial, you had the skill and found the strength to denounce before the world' s press the genocidal nature of the occupation of East Timor.
Despite the extremely difficult conditions of your imprisonment, you found the courage to take advantage of these circumstances to develop strategies for resistance, to study languages and law and also to write wonderful poems and paint pictures which you very kindly gave to me just now.
I trust you will permit me to give a brief resumé of your life for the benefit of the House.
Originally from East Timor, the eldest child of teachers, you studied mainly at the Catholic mission of Nossa Senhora di Fatima.
You started work at a very early age as a schoolteacher.
Before the age of 30, you joined the team of the A vos de Timor newspaper.
At the same time, you became actively involved in the central committee of the Fretilin resistance movement or the Revolutionary Front for the Independence of East Timor.
During the invasion of your country by Indonesia, you went into hiding.
After three years, you became the head of the guerrilla unit Falintin which was the armed wing of the resistance movement.
According to the press, the repressive occupation claimed 200 000 victims, a third of the population.
You worked tirelessly to find a peaceful solution.
You proposed a peace plan to the Indonesian Government and talks under the auspices of the United Nations Organisation.
You wanted to take the fight for a free East Timor beyond party politics and so you brought together the various forces within the National Council of Timorese Resistance.
You can be sure that this House is proud of having helped, by participating in the pressure exerted by the international community, to prompt the Indonesian President, Mr Habibi, to release you on 7 September. This came just after the referendum of 30 August in which 70.5% of the population of East Timor voted in favour of independence.
The European Parliament, in its work chaired by Vice-President Pacheco Pereira, has been delighted with the courage shown by the Timorese people to the whole world.
Like Mr Mandela in South Africa, you are the spokesperson for peace, justice and freedom in your country.
Your compatriots and people around the world know that it was with solid conviction that you declared on leaving prison that as a free man, you would undertake to do everything in your power to bring peace to East Timor and to your people.
You said to me just now that everything must now be built or rebuilt, in terms of logistics and training, in the health, justice and public service sectors.
The temporary administration which the UN is going to establish will form a basis for this.
You have declared that you want a pluralist democracy with open institutions, a diversified economy and a role for the press and non-governmental organisations.
We hope that the experience of 25 years of suffering will enable your people to realise this dream.
I am particularly pleased to be able to highlight the favourable influence which the Sakharov Prize has had on the fate of its candidates.
Among these I can think of Mr Ksila of Tunisia and Mr Birdal of Turkey who were released a few days after having been nominated, as well as Mr Mandela in South Africa and Mr Dubèek in the Czech Republic.
With regard to Mrs Suu Kyi and Mrs Zana, I have again spoken to the authorities in their countries to protest about the draconian conditions imposed on their freedom.
All these illustrious people have taken up the torch carried by Andrey Sakharov in making the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms their life' s goal.
So, Mr Gusmão, on behalf of the whole European Parliament, I am delighted to give you this extremely symbolic prize.
(Loud applause)
Madam President of the European Parliament, Mrs Fontaine, honourable Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am greatly honoured and moved to be here with you today, with you, the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe.
I must confess that when I returned to East Timor, I was devastated by the havoc caused by the systematic destruction and I could scarcely have imagined that I would come to Strasbourg and that I would have the rare opportunity of seeing and walking through the corridors and halls of the seat of democratic power in Europe, a Europe that shared with us the pain and suffering of genocide, but also the courage and the strength to resist a campaign of destruction and murder.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my people, to thank you for the attention and solidarity that you have shown by adopting numerous resolutions supporting my people in exercising their right to self-determination.
By giving the name of Sakharov to this prize, you are paying tribute to a man who fought vigorously for the freedom of thought.
Nothing characterises human beings as much as the ability to think.
To deprive someone of being able to think freely and to express his or her ideas is to deprive that person of their dignity as a human being.
Freedom of thought then, is a fundamental right of every human being and in Europe, it has become one of the fundamental pillars of citizenship.
In totalitarian regimes, the oppressors repress and suppress freedom of thought.
In Indonesia, our experience showed that through the regime of the Orde Baru (New Order), led by Suharto and his generals, which occupied my homeland for more than two decades, a system of repression and suppression was implemented through the imposition of a doctrine, Pancasila, which regimented thought and consequently human behaviour, in an attempt to destroy the ability to think in an individual, collective and, above all, free way.
This doctrine permeated the whole of Indonesian society, was transposed to East Timor and was carefully backed by a campaign of physical torture and mental conditioning.
Ironically though, these acts caused the opposite effect: they strengthened the identity and the determination of our people.
After the fall of Suharto in May 1998, ways opened up for the resolution of the conflict in East Timor and for the democratisation of Indonesia.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay sincere tribute to all winners of the Sakharov Prize, particularly Aung Sang Suu Kyi, one of the greatest fighters for freedom and democracy in the whole world.
(Loud applause)
Madam President, by exercising our most basic right, that of determining our own future as a free and independent country, it was easy to foresee tragic consequences, but our people did not hesitate to show, once again, that it is staunchly determined to defend its freedom.
Now that the terrible months of pain and suffering are over, with the murders and the irrational destruction of our homeland having been inflicted in a particularly brutal way, the Maubere people are preparing for reconstruction.
The tasks ahead are countless and the responsibilities that we all face are enormous.
The period of transition will begin with the first phase of rebuilding infrastructures that have been completely destroyed, in a year which we are calling "the year of emergency" , the year 2000.
Reconstruction will not be of a merely physical, material nature.
Reconstruction will also target social aspects, the political sphere, the economic domain and, above all, human and psychological problems.
Only the interaction of these various components will be able to guarantee a gradual recovery by Timorese society at all levels, in real and universal preparation for independence.
It is also important that what independence means for us is not just having a President, a flag and a national anthem.
Independence must guarantee the benefits of freedom for a people that has fought so hard and suffered so greatly.
The massive participation of 30 August must continue if the Timorese people are to feel that they themselves are the agents for development.
There will be no development without democracy.
(Loud applause)
Apart from the material reconstruction, we are committed to promoting civil society, education about human rights, education about democracy and the precise notion of justice, and we need your support.
East Timor is not only going to need financial support.
We are in a difficult, even crucial phase, because at the moment we are, or we feel that we are, very fragile and weak in terms of preparing ourselves for an independence that represents a new life for our people.
In this sense we remain confident in Europe' s support, a support that has continued to aim to prepare the Timorese, with a precise notion of universal values, so that, at the last hurdle, we do not betray the suffering of our people.
We are entering the phase of transition to independence with UNTAET.
Since the arrival of the UN Secretary-General' s special representative, we have been consolidating the mechanisms for consultation so that the Timorese have a say in this transition process.
I must say though that we still feel insecure.
We still feel weak and it is in this sense that the European Parliament and all the other institutions can help us; with other kinds of support rather than that of a merely financial nature.
We want to learn to be responsible towards the international community in the development of our country but, after a long period of political activism and of fighting, we feel today that we are carrying a huge burden on our shoulders because we are responsible for the happiness and the freedom that we have promised our people.
This prize shows the European Parliament' s recognition of my people' s courage in fighting for a free homeland where freedom of thought is guaranteed as a right that is inherent to the human condition.
My people deserve this recognition and it is on behalf of my people that I would like to thank you for the honour that has been conferred on me.
(Sustained applause)
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Are there any comments?
Madam President, I had asked the administration to ensure that the Members of the Charter Convention be officially notified to Parliament and I was assured that this would be done.
Then, contrary to the information given to me by the administration, the President in the Chair yesterday morning - it was not you - did not announce the Members of the Convention here orally.
I then asked the President in the Chair to rectify this, which he later did, and announced the ordinary Members of the Convention.
However, I felt that it was important that both the ordinary Members and the deputy Members should be announced and entered in yesterday' s Minutes, so that the whole House and the public know who the Members and deputy Members are.
The Minutes today only contain the names of the ordinary Members, as announced here yesterday.
My request is that, as the names of the deputies can probably no longer be inserted, they should be notified to Parliament and to the public in the Minutes of today' s sitting which will be distributed tomorrow.
Mr Poettering, I too have noticed that only the names of the full members appear in the Minutes.
I propose that the names of the substitutes be announced at 3.00 p.m. These will then appear in the Minutes of the present sitting.
Madam President, I would like to make a comment to the services because of a certain confusion about the seating arrangements for the Chamber.
The plan that was distributed shows that my colleague Luís Queiró and I, Ribeiro e Castro, should be sitting here.
Therefore, in the Minutes and in the verbatim report of proceedings, both concerning my intervention on Macao and also on the subject of the question to the Bureau at the time of the resolution on Chechnya, I was incorrectly identified as Luís Queiró, my colleague who sits in seat 571, and not by my own name, Ribeiro e Castro, and I sit in seat 662.
I would be grateful if these corrections could be made and if the plan could also be corrected because it shows two Members sitting in the same seat, which is obviously not right.
We will put this right, Mr Ribeiro e Castro.
In any case, it is your card which is recorded when voting.
Madam President, in point 38 of the Minutes, which is Questions to the Council, I have noticed that there is an error in the Spanish and German versions, at least, in that Question 9 is missing.
Question 9 has been omitted in printing.
However, it does mention the speakers on Question 9, but we must correct the fact that it passes from Question 8 to Question 10 without mention of Question 9, which I directed yesterday at the Council. The intervention which appears here by Mr Martínez Martínez is clearly not related to Question 8, but rather to Question 9, which has not been included.
Mr Martínez Martínez, this mistake is in the French version as well as the Spanish version.
We will, of course, correct this and reintroduce question 9.
Madam President, I have noticed that in a number of reports, my name has been consistently mixed up with that of Frank Vanhecke.
I would point out that this gentleman, like myself, is Flemish but that this is where the similarity ends.
I would appreciate it if, in future, the correct Christian name were mentioned after the surname.
We will be very careful about this.
Are there any other comments on the Minutes?
Madam President, yesterday myself and other Members drew your attention to the suspension of the computer service in the Members' offices, which is anticipated to last for thirteen days.
Later yesterday, we received the communication that the Parliament in Brussels will actually be totally inaccessible from 27 December to 2 January.
Such a long suspension of the computer service really does seem excessive.
I would therefore like to ask you if it would be possible to get round this inconvenience by working on one sector at a time, thereby making it possible for the Members to access Parliament even during the Christmas holidays.
Mr Cappato, I can only suggest for the moment that if, for specific reasons, Members wish to enter their offices over this period, they must say so and the necessary steps will be taken so that they can have access to the building and their offices.
I will see if it is possible to go further.
However, for the moment, you know that if you wish to come in individually and you have reason to do so, this can be arranged.
(The Minutes were approved)
Vote
We shall now proceed to the vote. However, we will have to postpone the vote on the budget because, as you know, we are still awaiting confirmation of the agreement with the Council which is giving the matter some final consideration.
We hope it will be inspired. We will only be able to vote on the budget once we have the Council' s response so that we can take this into account.
Report (A5-0090/1999) by Mrs Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the appointment of eight Members of the Court of Auditors (C5-0231/1999, C5-0232/1999, C5-0233/1999, C5-0234/1999, C5-0235/1999, C5-0236/1999, C5-0237/1999, C5-0238/1999 - 1999/0820(CNS))
Madam President, I simply want to say that I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes that, for obvious reasons, I am going to abstain from this vote, since it affects me directly.
Furthermore, not only am I not going to vote, but I am actually going to leave the Chamber.
Thank you, Mr Fabra Vallés.
We wish you good luck.
(Parliament adopted the eight resolutions in successive votes)
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0099/1999) by Mr Murphy, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions (8790/1999 - C5-0125/1999 - 1998/0099(COD))
Thank you, Mr Poettering. Your intervention is totally justified and I am very happy to enter this item on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents' meeting which is scheduled for this afternoon.
Madam President, I have no comment to make.
That was a procedural matter not actually related to the report itself.
We should vote.
I agree.
Mr Poettering was not actually opposing the vote on this report but, as you wished to speak, I gave you the opportunity to do so.
Madam President, following on from Mr Poettering' s intervention, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, yesterday, on the subject of Chechnya, I raised precisely the same kind of problem and drew attention to the need to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure.
I regret that, at that moment, Mr Poettering was not as sensitive...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr Ribeiro e Castro, we will look at all these questions in the Conference of Presidents' meeting.
Madam President, a brief comment on what Mr Poettering has said.
In principle, we take exactly the same view.
I should just like to point out that, if we adhere strictly to this principle, we shall have huge problems at the January plenary because a great deal has yet to be decided in the committees.
I would ask Mr Poettering to use his influence in his group to ensure that the committees are able to vote on time.
However, it is a perfectly tenable principle for the future.
We will consider all these questions in this afternoon' s Conference of Presidents' meeting.
Commissioner, pursuant to Rule 80(5) of our Rules of Procedure, please tell us the Commission' s position on the amendments proposed by the European Parliament to the Murphy report.
Madam President, as my colleague Mr Liikanen explained during yesterday' s debate, the Commission is able to accept the following Amendments: Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7-17, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 26.
The Commission can also accept Amendments Nos 6, 20 and 25 in principle.
The Commission does not agree with Amendments Nos 2, 18 and 23.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Report (A5-0101/1999) by Mr Papayannakis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 820/97 establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and regarding the labelling of beef and beef products (COM(1999) 487 - C5-0241/1999 - 1999/0205(COD))
Madam President, I should like to take advantage of the fact that certain members of the Council of Ministers are present.
The Council was not represented during the debate yesterday although its presence had been requested.
Would they please clarify the contents of the decisions taken yesterday or indeed the day before yesterday? These were of course taken before the European Parliament could give an opinion on the report now before us on the labelling of beef.
According to my sources, the Council has decided to postpone the application of compulsory labelling for one year, whereas we believe this postponement should only be for a matter of months.
It has also decided not to work on this issue with the European Parliament through the codecision procedure.
As the Council is now present, I should like an explanation because it is clear that this vote does not make much sense now.
Absolutely, Mr Papayannakis.
This is an excellent suggestion and I shall give the floor immediately to Mrs Siimes.
Madam President, I can confirm that yesterday, the Council, for its part, formally and finally adopted the compromise package which was offered to COBU.
Mrs Siimes, what you have just said is very encouraging but it relates to a later matter.
Mr Papayannakis' s question concerned another issue, namely his report on the registration of bovine animals and the labelling of beef.
Madam President, for the benefit of all our colleagues, I shall tell the Council and our Members about the two decisions which it took yesterday.
Firstly, the Council decided by qualified majority to postpone the application of compulsory labelling for one year, before Parliament had a chance to give its opinion.
Commissioner Byrne did not formally tell us this.
Secondly, and this is absolutely extraordinary, the Council says in its text that it believes the Commission has a third proposal. This is in addition to the proposal which we are now discussing and concerns the application of this regulation without consulting the European Parliament.
This proposal is based on another article allowing a Council decision to be taken directly with the Commission, with the European Parliament' s opinion being disregarded.
These are the two decisions taken yesterday.
Commissioner Byrne told us very clearly yesterday that these were merely guidelines.
The text which I have read does not allow such an interpretation and is actually quite categorical.
Does the Commission wish to give any further clarification?
(The Commissioner present did not wish to speak)
Madam President, if the Council and the Commission are not in a position to clarify this, then I shall endeavour to do so.
The Council did not decide to postpone for a year, but a conclusion was accepted whereby if Parliament accepts a proposed amendment in this report on labelling and does not pass the Commission proposal without proposed amendments, then the Council will not accept any such amendments and will not proceed under the simplified procedure.
If we dare to accept a proposed amendment, the Council will agree to the Commission' s tabling another text which has already been dealt with in the Council.
If it is tabled as an official Commission proposal in accordance with our procedure, then the Council will vote in favour of it.
This proposal will state, in accordance with the procedure in Regulation 820/97, that compulsory labelling is not in fact postponed but that it is allowed, for the purposes of implementation, to continue using voluntary labelling for a further year.
This means that, to all intents and purposes, Parliament has been levered out, although the conclusion is such that we cannot say that they have already made a decision.
A dirty trick has been used to keep us out of the codecision procedure.
This is the second time because this was the case in 1997 when the Council bowled us out of the codecision procedure with a unanimous decision.
We complained about this before the European Court of Justice.
This time, where codecision applies quite clearly under Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it has used this procedure to bowl us out a second time.
Most probably we shall again discuss renewed recourse to the European Court of Justice to protest against this illegal procedure by the Council.
Thank you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, for this very clear yet very worrying explanation.
Mr Papayannakis, do you consider that we can vote on your report or do you wish to request its referral back to committee?
Please indicate your position.
Madam President, we cannot allow my report to be referred back to committee because a decision must be taken by 31 December.
If nothing has been decided by 1 January, there will be a legal void which will cause chaos on the market.
A decision must therefore be made.
It will probably be taken without us but it is right and politically correct, if I may use this term, for Parliament to make a decision.
The Council will likely do whatever it wants but at least we can vote.
I completely agree.
Madam President, on behalf of my group I would like to say that we should have recorded a protest vote.
We have to vote on this, we have been put in an impossible position, but it should not be left as an ordinary vote of this Parliament.
It is a vote under protest and of protest.
I am sorry to delay things, Madam President, but there is another possibility.
I understand that the Fisheries Council will be meeting tomorrow and that our opinion on the Papayannakis resolution will go to the Fisheries Council.
Now, it is possible for the Fisheries Council, with some goodwill on their part, to take into account our amendments and to adopt the legal text with our amendments. I suggest that we vote on the Papayannakis report and then you select the most poisonous pen that you have in your armoury and you write on behalf of the Parliament to the Council with the expectation that the Fisheries Council will not simply nod through what was agreed yesterday but will take our amendments into account.
Once again, I can confirm that the Council, for its part, has formally and finally adopted yesterday the package compromise which was offered to COBU.
(Loud applause)
Thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I now give the floor to our rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges.
I thank Mrs Siimes for this very clear statement. It should be noted that her early delivery of this statement represents the only time in the budgetary procedure when the Council has succeeded in being not only on time but actually in advance.
I have rarely witnessed a budgetary procedure like this in which, until this positive statement allowing the agreement to be concluded, we were still faced with two lists of possible votes. One list would have been made in agreement with the Council and the other would have been established without agreement with the Council.
As soon as we have voted on the Colom i Naval report implementing the flexibility instrument, we can vote on the list agreed with the Council. No one will be happier than me at this point.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
Report (A5-0103/1999) by Mr Colom i Naval, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the revision of the financial perspective annexed to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure (SEC(1999)1647 - C5-0322/1999) and on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument (paragraph 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure) (SEC(1999)1647 - C5-0314/1999)
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
2000 General Budget, as modified by the Council
Report (A5-0095/1999) by Mr Bourlanges and Mr Virrankoski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2000, as modified by the Council (all sections) (C5-0600/1999) and on Letters of Amendment Nos 1/2000 (11568/1999 - C5-0313/1999) and 2/2000 (13482/1999 - C5-0311/1999)
Madam President, since an agreement has now been reached with the Council, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will withdraw its three amendments.
They are Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9.
Thank you, we will note this.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
I was not expecting to speak but, as you have asked me, I will do so.
First of all, I am mightily relieved that we have got the vote through.
It has been a tortuous process this particular year for everyone concerned, especially the rapporteurs, Mr Bourlanges, Mr Virrankoski and Mr Colom i Naval - because of the agreements with the Council.
It has been, at times, as Mr Bourlanges said earlier, rather nerve-wracking.
Now that we have got it through I want to thank the Council for the decision that they have taken and thank the Commission for their help.
As a matter of information for Members, with the vote which has gone through now, the total payments will be 1.11% of Europe's GNP which is under the ceiling for the year 2000 of the financial perspective of 1.13% and under the ceiling for own resources of 1.27%.
Madam President, I have three points to make.
Firstly, you have conducted this vote extremely well.
Thank you for having made the effort to preside when your state of health should have kept you in bed.
You have seen this vote through and will sign the budget for which I thank you on behalf of the whole House.
This vote illustrates once again that a difficult procedure can lead to an easy vote.
The more difficult the procedure is, the better the solutions reached by the time we come to the vote.
This has been true in this case and I must say that all those who participated in this procedure are experiencing some amazement at the ease of this vote given the conciliation difficulties.
On the substance, I believe that Parliament has gained about 75% of what it wanted.
As we represent 50% of the budgetary authority, this seems a reasonable percentage!
I must say to the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner that, given the difficulties and problems in the procedure, I am profoundly grateful for the efforts made by their institutions, and also by ourselves, to achieve this result.
It is the result which counts and we can be satisfied at having reached an agreement.
Finally, I would repeat what I said at the conclusion of the first reading. We all have deep respect for the services of the Committee on Budgets which expended all their energies in both the first reading and the second reading.
This House owes them a great debt of gratitude.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
Madam President, this budgetary procedure has shown throughout that the European Parliament, together with the Council, can work constructively and observe good budgetary discipline.
The last few days and hours have shown, in particular, that we have a sense of responsibility when attending to the European issues we have in common.
I would especially like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Wynn, and the main rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, for their excellent, constructive and patient cooperation in achieving our common objective.
Similarly, I wish to thank Mrs Siimes, President-in-Office of the Council, and Michaele Schreyer, Commissioner responsible for this area, for their excellent show of cooperation with Parliament.
Finally, I would just like to express my thanks also to all the officials on the Committee on Budgets, who have had to work very long hours and, at the same time, I thank Parliament as a whole and my own group in particular for their steadfast and energetic support at every stage.
Thank you, Mr Virrankoski.
The Commissioner wishes to say a few words so I gladly give her the floor.
Thank you, Madam President. I should like to thank the House for its extraordinary staying power.
It still looked on Monday evening as if numerous wishes would not come true.
It was touch and go with a very important declaration by Parliament, funding to reconstruct Kosovo had not been secured and the Council would have had to pay a great deal more.
Now we have a situation where funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo has been secured, where Parliament has achieved a great number of important objectives and the cost to the Member States has been reduced.
So we have a situation in which a no-win situation has quickly turned into a win-win situation and I think that is a wonderful position to be in for Christmas.
Madam President, this is the first time in fourteen years that I have acted as rapporteur for a budgetary procedure.
I shall be brief.
I simply want to express my agreement with the words of previous rapporteurs and remind you of a political rule: prudence will never make us traitors, and therefore I very much appreciate the solidarity and resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which has allowed us to safeguard the interests of this Parliament as an institution.
Madam President, you have just completed your second reading of the 2000 draft budget.
There remain a few differences between our institutions on the classification of expenditure.
However, the Council can accept the amendments you made to the Letter of Amendment No 2/2 000 as well as the maximum rate of increase which results from your second reading.
Thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
I too very warmly congratulate the Committee on Budgets and our rapporteurs for the excellent work which has been accomplished.
For my part, this is the first budget which I will have signed as President of the European Parliament and I must say that I am overjoyed by the remarkable result which has been achieved.
Once again, I heartily congratulate and thank those who have contributed to this.
Madam President, I do not know if you are aware of it, but this is an historic moment in the budgetary procedure of the European Union.
For the first time, each of the three institutions is represented here by a woman.
I had not noticed that but it is true.
The Millennium is ending on a high note.
(The 2000 General Budget was signed immediately after)
(Applause)
Mr President, I voted for the Colom i Naval report as well as the one on the budget.
The Commission representative said in conclusion: "this is a wonderful position to be in for Christmas" .
Well, I hope that next year too we will vote on the 2001 budget a few days before Christmas, with at least an equivalent increase with regard to this year' s budget.
Let us therefore hope that this type of Christmas present will become a tradition.
2000 Budget
Mr President, the signature of the budget was a scene of satisfaction, adulation, peace and joy.
However, because of a small cutback in funds, about which I wish to protest, I am not totally happy with this budget.
I voted against the budget repeatedly during the last parliamentary term because, despite unanimously approved reports on the worrying situation of beekeepers in Europe, the Commission was simply not prepared to provide the appropriations for the measures which we demanded in order to preserve beekeeping.
Since 1998 we have had a mini-heading of EUR 15 million in the budget to finance 50% of the national programme to improve the production and marketing of honey, based on a regulation which we have criticised as inadequate.
Now we have seen this mini-heading of EUR 15 million for 15 countries reduced by a third to 10 million.
I fail to understand how this could happen, given that the Commission itself quoted a funding requirement of 15 million per annum in its justification of the regulation.
I am grateful to the rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Görlach, who also protested about this reduction in his letter to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets.
I should like here to register my protest that the Committee on Budgets has failed to take account of this.
I hope that a way can be found in the Council of Ministers of increasing this budget line to EUR 15 million, as in 1998 and 1999.
I shall, of course, continue to lobby steadfastly until the Commission finally proposes the various measures demanded unanimously by this Parliament to preserve beekeeping in Europe - pollination premiums, inclusion of beekeeping in the structural programmes ...
(Interruption by the President)
... cost EUR 65 million.
That is peanuts in a budget of 90 billion, a mere 0.072%.
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, I am staying here because I have been told that, if one is to hand in explanations of vote, one should be present in the Chamber.
I therefore demand that explanations of vote from those who are not present should not be valid.
Strictly speaking, that is true.
We generally ensure that Members who ask for an explanation of vote are in attendance at the vote.
Normally, provided they have attended the vote we are liberal in the interpretation of the Rule.
Strictly speaking, however, they should be here for their name to be read out.
Mr President, I am presenting a written explanation of vote on behalf of seven Swedish and Danish Members.
We were never told that everyone had to be here when we hand in the explanations of vote so I suggest that this should be valid for all those seven Members.
On this occasion, I am happy to accept that, although I should remind Members that technically they should be in the Chamber to hear their name read out.
We have this procedure at the end of votes where I read out the names of those who have asked for written explanations.
Members do not have to stay through the whole process but they should be here until their name is read out.
Mr President, the President of the European Parliament has just signed this budget for over EUR 90 billion.
It would be good if she could also sign the rather more modest payment orders for the taxi drivers who bring Members here to this House.
I would remind you that these taxi drivers earn about FF 10 000 per sitting or roughly EUR 1 500.
However, they do not receive this payment until three or four months later!
During this time they have to pay VAT at 20.6% and so are effectively giving Parliament a cash advance.
Over three or four months this amounts to about EUR 5 000. By not being able to invest this money, given the free movement of capital which we have authorised, they are losing in the order of FF 1 500 per month.
I am delighted that everyone is rejoicing, including Mr Colom I Naval and Mrs Fontaine, but our taxi drivers and chauffeurs cannot rejoice.
I would remind those who were driven here by these taxi drivers in November that they will not be paid until March.
Mr President, I believe this affects you as much as the rest of us.
It would be good if the taxi drivers, like the beekeepers, could also participate in the joy of Mrs Fontaine and the European Parliament which has achieved what we could call a victory over the Council.
- (SV) We are supporting the Budget adopted by Parliament for the year 2000, the interinstitutional agreement and the Berlin Agreement concerning the long-term Budget.
Following today' s decision in the European Parliament, the EU' s Budget for the year 2000 is an important step in the right direction, that is to say in the direction of the EU taking ever greater responsibility for its citizens.
The Budget provides for significant investments in what are, for us, important areas.
We are delighted to note that our proposal for establishing a separate Budget item for local and regional measures for the areas of the Baltic and the Barents Sea have been voted through by Parliament.
We support the efforts made by Parliament' s Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities during the Budget debate when it comes to financing the EU' s equality programme.
Among other things, it is important that non-governmental organisations such as the European Women´s Lobby should not see a deterioration in their opportunities to operate at European level.
We are pleased about the increased resources for dialogue between the two sides of industry, especially with a view to the importance of beginning to construct a well-functioning labour market in the applicant countries, with strong trade-union organisations and good social conditions.
The efforts made in the Budget to reform the common agricultural policy and reduce its costs are a step in the right direction.
We nonetheless call for further efforts to make agricultural policy more oriented to the environment and the consumer, as well as better adjusted to the market.
We call for far-reaching reform, not least with a view to the forthcoming enlargement.
The EU' s agricultural and consumer policies must accord better with one another, especially when it comes to measures in the veterinary area and to measures for the protection of plants.
It must be possible to guarantee food safety throughout Europe.
We are also definitely against the support being given to tobacco cultivation.
Support for tobacco cultivation must be phased out and replaced by support for the cultivation of alternative crops.
When it comes to refunding the travel expenses of Members of the European Parliament, we maintain our view that only actual expenses which have arisen in connection with journeys on official business should be refunded.
We look especially positively upon the resources which have now been allocated to the reconstruction in Kosovo, Turkey and East Timor.
We have worked hard to ensure that it might be possible to procure these resources for the whole of next year.
With a view to financing these initiatives, which are so important, we have in the first place endeavoured to revise the Budget plan, especially in view of the fact that the reconstruction of Kosovo in the course of the next few years will require a lot of aid from the EU over a period of several years.
The Budget process has nonetheless been very complicated and entailed major examinations in cooperation with the Council of Ministers.
In the run-up to next year' s Budget negotiations, it is important that cooperation between Parliament and the Council should be strengthened for the negotiation process. Better cooperation in the Budget negotiations is a prerequisite of the European Union' s activities being as effective as possible.
With today' s decision, the European Parliament is adopting the EU' s Budget for the year 2000.
This is happening within the Budget framework established at the Berlin Summit in May of this year.
This has been our moderate objective throughout the Budget process.
Had a decision of a different kind been made, there would have been a risk of negative consequences for the EU which would have damaged the EU' s reputation.
If it had been decided to introduce a new financial framework, there would have been a danger of this too proving expensive for the Member States.
With this Budget, the reconstruction of Kosovo will be successfully financed during the year 2000 within the Budget framework.
Before the end of April, the Commission is to come back with proposals to finance the long-term reconstruction work in Kosovo and the western Balkans.
In the first reading of the Budget for the year 2000, the Council of Ministers proposed a 10 per cent linear reduction in category four.
This made it possible to finance the unforeseen expenditure on Kosovo, Turkey and East Timor.
In certain cases, however, there were less than welcome consequences for those Budget items affected by reductions.
In a number of cases, these reductions were subtly modified in the second reading. This is the result of the Budget authorities' jointly having set necessary priorities.
We view this as something positive.
We are afraid that, at the same time as the needs in Kosovo demand sacrifices and purposefulness, many will want to expand the EU' s Budget and introduce new Budget items.
- (SV) The Budget compromise for the EU' s expenditure for the year 2000 which has been reached between the institutions of the Union is relatively well balanced and therefore welcome.
What constitutes a success, above all, is the fact that a solution has been found to the question of financing the reconstruction in Kosovo.
The previously agreed Budget framework is being maintained, and the same applies to the interinstitutional agreement.
Reductions in Category IV - External Measures (principally Aid) - are now significantly smaller than in the Council' s original proposal.
It is, however, unfortunate that there is an inbuilt rigidity in the Budget negotiations which makes it impossible at this stage to redistribute resources between different Budget categories. This also applies in the case of unforeseen and exceptional occurrences in the world around us.
It would, of course, have been more reasonable to have financed the reconstruction in Kosovo by means of reductions in categories of expenditure other than that of External Measures.
We must ask ourselves what kind of solidarity we have with the world around us when aid to a neighbour is increased by reducing aid to other countries in need.
It would have been possible to achieve significant savings within both the areas of agriculture and of structural and regional policy, as well as within other areas affecting the domestic market, if the preliminary Budget proposal had been complied with to a greater extent.
In spite of this, we see the compromise as a solution which all parties can live with.
We accept that a review of the long-term Budget framework may become necessary during the spring of the year 2000 when a more thorough and stable calculation of the costs of reconstruction in Kosovo and the Balkans will be available.
It is important to combine Budget discipline with a flexibility which allows the European Union to act with solidarity in the case of unforeseen events in the world around us.
Bourlanges/Virrankoski report (A5-0095/1999)
- (FR) For the second time this year, the EU' s credibility is at stake in the Balkans.
The budget for the reconstruction of Kosovo has emerged as the main difficulty at second reading.
The conflict has been extensively discussed in recent weeks by Parliament and the Council but there are certain essential aspects which we must not forget. With regard to the aid granted to Kosovo, it is surprising that this is not conditional on the definitive restoration of peace which has unfortunately not yet been achieved, as indicated by a recent OSCE report.
As for the sums allocated, the members of the Committee on Budgets have participated through the committees in some real bargaining.
The institutions have juggled with millions of euros without anyone really taking the trouble to assess the region' s needs, yet everyone agrees that Kosovo could not actually absorb such sums which are equivalent to half its GNP.
In this respect, we must deplore the lack of rigour shown by the Commissioner responsible for the budget. When questioned by the Committee on Budgets, he was incapable of estimating the amounts needed in euros and could only give these in dollars.
This is not particularly serious and would even raise a smile if, at the same time, the EU' s budget policy and the risk of a review of the financial perspective did not seem to be so contrary to national interests.
The same is true of the rigorous budgetary discipline imposed on the Member States even though the EU is not so strict on itself. This budget 2000 will cost the Member States very dear and the agricultural line is once again the main reason for the increase in external actions.
You can understand the anxiety of European farmers faced with the new priorities set by all the institutions.
Who can they turn to?
Certainly not the Commission, as it clearly showed in Seattle, nor the Council, which at second reading trimmed EUR 450 million off compulsory expenditure. Yet, unfortunately, nor can they rely on Parliament which, through its rapporteur, intends to challenge the existence of compulsory expenditure.
The budget is a fundamental act which makes political choices.
We reject these choices and so will vote against the 2000 budget.

I think it would be sensible if next year the financial needs of the crisis in Kosovo are addressed by demonstrating flexibility now, and we should not yet start to amend the financial perspective in Category 4.
The maximum figure for Category 4 does not have to be amended permanently other than by using a flexibility clause to the full.
On the other hand, the position of Parliament that was adopted here today will mean enormous challenges for Portugal, as the final decisions on the financing of external actions are being left until next spring.
Theato report (A5-0090/1999)
- (SV) In connection with the account of the Court of Auditors' annual report, it emerged that the Court of Auditors' current President, Jan O. Karlsson, had taken steps against the person who had supplied the mass media with information about the content of the annual report.
We Swedes have a lot to learn within the European partnership.
The EU in turn has something to learn from the way we handle some things in Sweden.
Openness and public access to official records are one such area.
It is therefore unfortunate that, instead of upholding our traditions, Jan O. Karlsson should have chosen to adapt to what unfortunately applies in Brussels.
There may be different views as to how far it was right or wrong of an official in the EU' s Court of Auditors to reveal in advance the contents of the annual report.
What is really important, however, is that we should together fight for the right to do this.
We are concerned here with the freedom to supply information which the Government so often says it wants to uphold in the EU context.
It is, to say the least, worrying that the Swedish head of the EU' s Court of Auditors should choose to adapt to the worst aspects of the EU administration' s culture, namely secrecy and the desire for revenge upon employees who choose to speak out.
In the Swedish constitution and in Swedish debate, the freedom to supply information is acknowledged as an indispensable part of any effective supervision of the democratic and public system.
We believe that this is important for democracy.
We think there is a need for more EU employees who dare to reveal cheating and irregularities.
For each time an EU official is reprimanded because of his openness, we lose ground in our work for an open EU.
Against the background of the above, we have not been able to support the re-election of those Members who are at present Members of the Court of Auditors and who obviously consider that it is perfectly correct to act in this way.
We have therefore chosen to abstain from voting when it comes to appointing Giorgio Clemente, Jørgen Mohr, Aunus Salmi and Jan O. Karlsson.
Murphy recommendation for second reading (A5-0099/1999)
Mr President, I voted for the Murphy report.
It is right and proper that the European Parliament is trying to avoid delays in the payment of commercial transactions.
As the representative of the Pensioners' Party, I nevertheless hope that one day, Parliament will also address public administrations which must pay pensions to eligible people in the fifteen Member States.
In Italy, for example, 10, 15 or even 20 years go by before an elderly person, even a 90 year-old, receives their due.
It would not be amiss if public administrations in the fifteen Member States were subject to the same attention as private administrations.
.
(ES) Strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and favouring measures which will contribute to improving their competitiveness has been one of the objectives of this Parliament, because of the fundamental role they play in the creation of jobs and because any actions aimed at small and medium-sized economic operators promote European economic growth in general and provide a safe path towards achieving economic and social cohesion in the Community.
The proposal for a directive combating late payments in commercial transactions is, in this sense, an effective instrument in terms of ending the excessive and often abusive time limits for payment which are used in certain fundamental sectors and which are the main cause of bankruptcy and financial and investment difficulties which SMEs have to face.
This is why I have a very positive view of the Murphy report and have voted in favour of it, since it reintroduces aspects which the Council had eliminated in drawing up the common position, but which are of unquestionable benefit to SMEs, in particular the obligation to legislate for the establishment of standardised payment terms in commercial transactions and for this obligation to also be incumbent upon public entities.
Let us hope that the Council listens to Parliament and that we can at last lay down harmonised contract rules at a European level, which will put an end to late payment and the dominant position of some creditors with regard to payment terms, and thereby improve the competitiveness of SMEs.
- Mr President, I strongly support this excellent report by my Labour colleague, Simon Murphy.
It offers yet further proof of Labour's commitment to create an environment across Europe where entrepreneurs and businesses can flourish.
Late payment regularly throttles many viable businesses, especially small businesses.
Many, through no fault of their own, are tragically forced into receivership as a result.
Entrepreneurs are needlessly ruined, jobs are lost, needlessly lost, economic vibrancy is needlessly deadened.
This measure, however, will help allow small businesses to fight back.
Creditors will be entitled to charge a statutory interest rate on their debts, encouraging debtors to pay early.
Furthermore, if debts are not repaid, creditors will also be able to recoup their costs for collecting bad debts.
By introducing greater certainty in business transactions Europe-wide, small businesses will feel more confident to trade not just across Britain but also right across the European Single Market.
Membership of the Single Market, the largest trading bloc in the world, is crucial for jobs in the north-west.
Nearly 40% of small and medium sized enterprises in the region have trading links with other EU Member States.
As a part of the EU Single Market, they have access to over 370m potential customers - over 6 times more than in Britain alone.
In a few years time, following the enlargement of the European Union, they will have access to a potential 500m customers - as big as the American and Japanese markets put together.
The Labour Government is determined to make the Single Market work for British business.
By giving UK businesses the confidence to reach into these markets, this measure will help in this task and increase trade, growth and employment across both the north-west and all of Britain.
Papayannakis report (A5-0101/1999)
Mr President, the Commission could not have produced anything better than this text on labelling as evidence that France is right to keep its ban on British beef.
We have at times been told that this ban is not really necessary and that beef only needs to be labelled properly to ensure that the reasonable consumer does not buy British beef.
Yet this is strange reasoning given that it is tantamount to accepting the deaths of those consumers who misread the labels and is clearly an unacceptable abdication of the State' s responsibilities.
However, this reasoning is now invalidated by today' s text as we are being told that the beef labelling obligation is to be postponed.
What is going on?
At the beginning of 1997, in the middle of the mad cow crisis, the Council decided to implement an identification system for bovine animals from the place of production. It also decided on the labelling of beef which would initially be optional but would become compulsory from 1 January 2000.
With this fateful date now approaching, the Commission confesses that nothing is ready and the obligation cannot be applied for another year.
This means that, after years of negligence, we are still incapable in the European Union of ensuring the effective traceability of beef.
A French consumer who buys ravioli from Italy cannot be absolutely sure that this does not contain meat from mad British cows.
In view of such negligence, we are stunned that the Commission is daring to bring France before the Court of Justice for having kept its ban.
We have never before realised to what extent the free movement of goods predominates over any other consideration in the single market.
It is true that the French Government has allowed itself to become legally trapped by accepting the Treaty of Amsterdam which deprives France of its right to protect itself.
Yet this right is sacred.
It is not too late for us to pull ourselves together and win back this right from the Commission.
Mr President, I am very pleased that this measure on the labelling and identification of beef has been approved, but I hope that the citizens, those poor souls, are labelled too, particularly the pensioners.
I would like it to be known when they were born and what they are like, given that - and this is something I often notice - they are considered as numbers.
Yes, bureaucracy views elderly citizens who want their pensions as numbers - I would remind you that I am the representative of the Pensioners' Party and I have seen this many times - which is why I hope that the photographs of these citizens will be put onto documents and that our citizens will be labelled and considered to be at least equal to livestock.
- (FR) The beef labelling proposal is now before us as the labelling of GMOs was previously.
Labelling has become the wonder tool.
Through it, food safety will reign, the consumer will be protected and our Green colleagues will be satisfied at having ensured the survival of humanity, at least in terms of food ...
In reality, labelling is one of those tricks so well loved by the leaders of Europe for calming people' s anxieties without actually solving any problems.
The labelling of GMOs should already be ringing alarm bells.
We have no idea what to put on the labels.
For example, do we put 'product of biotechnologies' ?
If we put both 'bio' and 'techno' on a product' s label, consumers will fall over themselves to buy it.
This beef labelling proposal is therefore revealing the length of the Commission' s nose like a Community Pinocchio.
This is the Brussels institution which, in 1997, decided on labelling for beef. Yet it is only now telling us that it is not technically capable of identifying the origin of bovine animals.
If the origin of bovine animals cannot be identified, how can we be sure that British beef presents no risk? We have to go one way or the other.
If we know the provenance of bovine animals, then the lifting of the ban on British beef can be guaranteed and these animals can also be labelled. Yet, if we cannot label these animals because we do not know the origin of the meat, how can we then lift the ban?
In other words, in the same week, France cannot be forced to lift its ban because the meat is traceable to a certain extent, while the request for labelling has been turned down on account of the technical impossibility of tracing the animals.
Who can actually believe that in the three years since 1997 we have not managed to label meat by indicating the origin of the animal?
Despite the fact that we can already indicate the location of the slaughterhouse, we cannot give the provenance of the slaughtered animal.
The European Commission really does not care about consumers or the people.
Brussels wants one thing only which is to ensure the free movement of products, capital, people and now contaminated British beef, at any price and without any obstacles.
It is clear that labelling would result in the de facto boycott of British beef by consumers who do not want to compromise what remains of their brains after being fried by television news.
In essence, the slogan of the European Commission and of the whole concept of European construction is 'profit before life' and has been so since 'the Europe of our brainless forefathers' .
This is so obvious that the only label which might ensure safety would be one which read 'official from Brussels' .
- (DE) The regulation to be amended at the Commission' s proposal was described two years ago in the wake of the BSE crisis as a central issue and an important decision within the context of European consumer protection.
The stated purpose of the regulation is to protect animal and human health and to increase or restore consumer confidence in the quality of beef and meat products.
What was it that persuaded the Council to adopt this regulation when it did?
Was it perhaps a way of saying to the public, look here, we are doing all we can to end the BSE crisis, while never really having any serious intention, either then or now, of implementing the regulation.
Unfortunately, it was just that. The public has been cheated and, on top of everything, a disservice has been done to European consumer protection.
To be sure, some speakers voiced their concern during the first and second readings that the text of the law was perhaps too strict and that there would be problems with its transposition.
So there were signs.
If that was the problem, we had the chance to rectify it but, unfortunately, we did not make use of that chance.
The errors on the part of individual Member States, and I would be most interested to know which Member States, is only one side of the coin; the irresponsible conduct on the part of the Commission is the other.
Allow me in this context to remind the Commission of a few agreed dates: the Commission should be managing an electronic data base on 31 December 1999, i.e. in 16 days' time. Is this data base up and running?
The same question arises in relation to the Member States' reports on the implementation of the beef labelling system; these reports were supposed to have been sent to the Commission by 1 May 1999.
Are they available?
Obviously the delay with all the stages of transposition has not come about overnight.
The Commission must have been able to see at the beginning of the year that the deadlines set could not be kept.
Why then was Parliament not informed of these developments earlier, as it could have been in July.
Today we are discussing postponing the entry into force of the regulation without really knowing how transposition is progressing in the individual Member States, without knowing how long implementation will still take and, more importantly, what action has yet to be taken.
The original intention of the regulation, which was to generate confidence in European consumer protection, would be reversed by this sort of measure.
The Commission' s present proposal is, in my eyes, confusing and lacking in background information and I am therefore unable to support it.
- Mr President, I am all in favour of the labelling of beef.
Reforms in beef production introduced in Britain following the beef crisis now make British beef among the highest quality and safest in the world.
In time, I am confident that consumers not just in Britain but throughout the EU will recognise this fact and actively search out British beef.
Full labelling will therefore work to British beef farmers' advantage.
If such a confidence-building measure also speeds the end of the illegal French ban on British beef, then so much the better.
EU citizens will recognise good beef when they see it.
They will also recognise law-breaking and hypocrisy when they see it.
The French beef ban, as everyone but the French Government agrees, is illegal and totally unjustified.
The French beef ban is also hypocritical and unworthy of a French Government that claims to be at the heart of Europe.
Hence Labour MEPs dignified walkout during the official opening of the new Parliament building on Tuesday.
MEPs should not make EU laws in a country that breaks EU laws.
In contrast, I can only praise the restraint and respect for the law shown by farmers in the north-west and Britain as a whole throughout this crisis.
I urge them to continue to show such responsibility.
I also urge the Commission to institute fast-track proceedings against the French Government as soon as possible.
Furthermore, I urge the Commission to investigate the possibility of compensation for hard-pressed British beef farmers, many of them driven almost to the wall by the beef ban.
In this connection, I welcome new proposals by my Socialist Group colleagues for a European Small Claims Court to help people facing ruin due to EU disputes in future.
We should never forget, however, where ultimate responsibility for this crisis lies.
It was the Tories who, through lax regulation, caused the crisis.
It was the Tories, who, through their ludicrous beef war, escalated the crisis.
And it is the Tories now, who, through irresponsible calls for illegal retaliatory boycotts, are trying to extend the crisis for their own party political gain.
While the Tories continue to play politics, however, Labour continues to work, with the support of the NFU, to get the ban lifted.
Helsinki European Council
Mr President, the Members of the European Free Alliance have also approved the text concerning the Helsinki Summit.
Nevertheless, by way of an explanation of vote, I would like to make a few observations.
Parliament has taken note of the fact that Turkey has been included as a candidate country.
This turn of phrase clearly hints at the wave of criticism this has met within this Parliament.
On behalf of the European Free Alliance, I would like to explicitly subscribe to this criticism.
We thought it was far too soon, given that the Kurdish issue is nowhere near a stage where it could be resolved in the light of the right to self-determination of the Kurds and human rights are still being violated with no end in sight.
The fact that the winner of the Sakharov prize, Leyla Zana, is still in prison herself, clearly indicates that the right to freedom of speech in Turkey and human rights are still being neglected.
This is why it was not the right time.
We do wonder if there is ever going to be a right time.
My second observation concerns our disappointment regarding institutional reform.
As far as we are concerned, regions which have sovereign power, based on their own constitution, should also be able to execute it within Europe.
Europe is not just a sum of Member States.
Democracy within Europe must gain more depth.
Mr President, in our opinion the most striking feature of the Helsinki European Council was the absence of any long-term political vision among the Heads of State and Government. They decided to enlarge the Union to a previously unimagined extent, possibly adding thirteen new members, without giving any consideration to the conceptual tools which would make it possible to envisage the institutional structures capable of coping with this enlargement.
The contradiction has now reached its limit with the inclusion of Turkey on the list of official candidates. The Turkish Prime Minister declared the day after the Summit that membership of the European Union was, and I quote, a "birthright" for Turkey.
This gives us an idea of the restraint which he is ready to show in pushing open the door to the European Union. Yet it is clear to all freethinking observers that the arrival of Turkey will profoundly alter the nature of the Union.
Can you, for example, imagine the free movement of persons between Turkey and the countries of western Europe, virtually without any controls as is now happening within the EU?
The Heads of State and Government who are supposed to be responsible must be very far removed from reality to imagine for one instant that this could happen.
Yet they continue to advocate an almost unique solution with the extension of qualified majority voting, as reiterated the day before yesterday by the French President, Jacques Chirac, before this House.
The federalists are simply reeling off the same old recipes by rote, without thinking about what they are saying.
We have the impression of an institutional system that is going downhill and which has no concept of its future, unless the Council has one without daring to tell us. It seems to be a prisoner of the consequences of an enlargement decision which it cannot control.
The Turkish Prime Minister has boasted of having been supported by Washington in his attempt to accede to the European Union, and it is true that this intervention was effective.
He has even added that less time will be needed than was thought for Turkey to become a full member of the Union.
At this rate, it will also take less time than we thought for the Union to self-destruct.
(Some applause)
Mr President, it is with great regret that the CDU/CSU group acknowledges the decision to grant Turkey candidate status.
We consider this Council decision to be a fatal error because it will permanently encumber rather than foster relations with this important and reliable ally.
Even the Council knows that the criteria for integration have not been met and will not be met in the foreseeable future because Turkey is not even prepared to amend fundamental clauses in its constitution, such as the influence of the military.
The expectations raised in Helsinki are therefore bound to end in disappointment.
This is why we want relations with this important partner to be based on a partnership within as close an economic framework as possible, i.e. by meeting the obligations of customs union, rather than on illusionary prospects of membership.
Relations with Turkey are too important to be founded on the hypocritical act of Helsinki!
- (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted for the resolution concerning the results of the European Council' s meeting of 10-11 December in Helsinki.
The most important result of the Summit was that the EU has confirmed the ambitious plans for the enlargement of the EU, meaning, among other things, that an Intergovernmental Conference is now to be called to facilitate the accession of new Member States.
Throughout the preparations for the Summit, as well as with a view to the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, we have attached importance to a realistic agenda being established which will make it possible to achieve a result before the end of the year 2000.
We are therefore very satisfied with the conclusions which were reached in Helsinki in this area.
It is important that, in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference, a lot of new matters should not be brought up which make it impossible to comply with the very tight timetable.
The best example of the difficulties that can be caused by introducing new subjects is probably the issue of the so-called tax package.
It is annoying that a result in this area should not already have been achieved in Helsinki, but it will hopefully be possible to solve the matter no later than at the forthcoming Summit in Lisbon in the summer.
In the period leading up to the Summit, we warned against the EU turning itself into a fully-fledged defence alliance on a number of occasions.
We therefore noted with satisfaction that the European Council resolved that no European army should be established but that the focus should be upon conflict prevention and civil crisis management.
. (PT) We wish to highlight four decisions taken at the Helsinki European Council meeting of 10 and 11 December, regardless of latter considerations, which merit the following comments:
We are concerned to note the definition of the outlines of the next Intergovernmental Conference, which may clear the way for the reality of "boards of management" and for the deepening of the EU' s federalist tendency.
Whilst we regret the fact that the Council decided to accept Turkey as a candidate for accession, we hope that at least no new steps are taken until its government takes the necessary measures in the area of human rights, international law on the fixing of borders, the application of the UN resolutions on Cyprus and a political solution to the Kurdish question.
We criticise the decision to develop the European Union' s resources for military crisis management, in the framework of a strengthened European common policy on security and defence, conceived as the development and strengthening of NATO' s European pillar, as we also reject the militarist vision of resorting to warfare in order to resolve international conflicts.
What was necessary was to have created initiatives for disarmament and the banning of nuclear testing.
Finally, we feel that it is crucial to pay greater attention to the quality of employment, to reducing working hours and to giving dignity to workers and that we do not continue to insist on flexibility at work and on moderation in wages.
We voted against the motion for a common resolution on the Helsinki European Council because it rejected amendments - particularly those proposed by the UEN Group - which would have improved, it in the chapters "Enlargement" , "Intergovernmental Conference" and "External Relations" .

We agree specifically however with paragraph nos 19 to 27 (competitive economy and employment) and nos 29 to 34 (environment, public health and combating organised crime and drugs).
For our part, we take pleasure in the fact that the European Council has maintained and seems to want to maintain the intergovernmental method at the centre of the Union' s international system; and we reject the blindness that has led many to claim all the glory for the European Parliament, scorning the role of national governments and cutting them out of the European process, which is an unacceptable mistake.
We also disagree with the urgency where Turkey is concerned.
In terms of external policy as well, we particularly regret the lack of any mention of the very grave situation in Angola as well as the fact that no reservations have been expressed about the agreement reached with Mexico, which could give a worldwide advantage to NAFTA countries, exacerbate the disequilibrium in reciprocal access to the markets and seriously damage the interests of European industries.
We also regret the fact that nothing has been said about Russia to correct the tone of some obvious exaggerations in the resolution on Chechnya.
That concludes the explanations of vote.
Book prices in Germany and Austria
The next item is the Oral Question (B5-0038/99) by Mr Rothley and others on fixed book prices in Austria and Germany.
Mr President, Commissioner, you were somewhat indignant that Parliament is addressing this question, but is it really just an administrative act?
Is it really only a question of applying current law?
I think not.
You had the opportunity to grant an exemption. You failed to do so.
That was a political decision.
In France, for example, the legislator has decided in the light of bitter experience to set book prices by law.
That is a political decision.
When we talk of cultural diversity and the promotion of literary and scientific production, then we are talking politics.
When we sense that some people - I do not mean you, but others in the Commission - have replaced Our Father with Our shareholder value, then we are talking politics.
We have since gone into the question in greater detail.
I have said that there is a case for the decision not to grant an exemption.
But then we need national fixed book prices which work.
I am most grateful that you accept that export and re-import rules are needed.
In the final analysis, that is a general legal principle that a legal situation cannot be circumvented.
What we need, however, are import rules.
That is the decisive point which we still need to discuss.
How should import rules be worded so that national fixed book prices are not circumvented?
If we can reach agreement on this point, then I think we will have solved the problem.
My proposal is that we seek a solution on the basis of French legislation.
There is no point in having a patchwork quilt of different legal regulations in the European Union.
My request to the Commission is this: we have a legal regulation in France which works.
Please allow the others, including Germany and Austria, to find a regulation on a legal or contractual basis which works in a similar manner.
I would like to thank Mr Rothley for his question and intervention, and I would like to mention that I have already discussed this subject with him at some length.
First of all, I would like to point out that the Commission started to address the cross-border system of fixed book prices in force in Germany and Austria a long time before the protest made by the Austrian company Libro in 1996.
In fact, the proceedings in question began in 1993, with the Commission being notified of the cross-border agreements between German and Austrian publishers.
This was followed in 1994, 1995 and 1996 respectively, by the protests of two sellers of German books and the Austrian federal workers' association, an organisation which also has the task of defending consumer interests.
The Commission has not yet completed its consideration of the cases in question and therefore cannot bring forward the decision that will be taken on the proceedings currently underway.
It is the Commission' s duty not to discuss, apart from with those involved, an individual case on competition law where proceedings are open, but it can talk about the general points raised in an oral question, which is something I am very happy to do in your presence in this House.
National systems of fixed book prices may be based on national regulations or an agreement between companies, and in the case in point, between publishers and booksellers.
It is impossible to make an exact comparison of such regulations and an agreement between companies: indeed, different provisions of the Treaty are applied.
Systems based on regulations must be considered on the basis of Article 28 of the Treaty, whereas agreements between companies must comply with Article 81 of the Treaty.
In both cases, the case-law of the Court of Justice must obviously be respected.
The Commission believes that national systems of fixed book prices, based on agreements between companies, are compatible with Community competition rules if they do not significantly affect trade between Member States.
In these cases where trade is affected, Article 81 is not applied.
As for systems based on regulations, each Member State is free to adopt regulations as long as they are compatible with the principle, sanctioned by the Treaty, of the free movement of goods.
This choice is left to the national authorities.
More particularly, as far as French legislation is concerned - which Mr Rothley has mentioned - and as it was drafted at the time, in the judgement of 10 January 1995 on the Leclerc case, no. 229/83 "Au blé vert" , the Court of Justice decreed that, in the sphere of national legislation establishing a fixed book price system, rules which establish that the publisher' s fixed price must be observed, as regards the sale of books published in the Member State itself, and which are reimported prior to export to another Member State, constitute measures with an effect equivalent to import restrictions, which are prohibited under Article 28 (ex Article 30) of the Treaty, unless there are well-grounded reasons to believe that the aforementioned books have been exported with the sole aim of reimporting them with the intention of evading the aforementioned law.
Finally, I would like to point out that such legislation, in Germany and Austria, would not contribute to the harmonisation of European law.
Indeed, there are various Member States that have never had a system of fixed book prices and there are other Member States that had such a system and put an end to it, for example Belgium, Ireland and the United Kingdom which, as we know, have the same language as another Member State.
Mr President, Commissioner, the question of fixed book prices is primarily a question of cultural policy.
The fact, Mr President, Commissioner, that I am addressing you here and now in German demonstrates that fixed book prices are not just a national problem; they are a cross-border issue which also affects a series of linguistic enclaves outside Germany and Austria.
Books are cultural assets, writing is the first recorded form of the language, of linguistic identity, and I think that, however important it is to comply with competition standards, the cultural aspect must be considered equally important and given equal status.
Even if current legislation within the framework of the European Union does not yet allow for cross-border regulations in this area, I hope that we shall arrive at this form of regulation in the future, especially since the German and Austrian Ministers for Culture defined and documented this issue as such for cross-border action in February last year.
I think that a regulation needs to be found to protect authors and to protect publishers, if not in the form of current cross-border measures, then in the form of national regulations.
The problem of imports, be they of a contractual or legislative nature, is a crucial element in this respect.
I hope that the rapprochement to date between the Commission and the European Parliament, which has already taken up this matter several times during the last parliamentary term, be it in the Committee on Culture or in plenary, will continue.
And as Mr Rothley has already said: it will not do to have a patchwork quilt in Europe in the future; on the contrary, we need a sensible regulation, which may not be optimal but which meets the demands of the professional organisations in question.
The French model could offer a workable, viable solution for the immediate future.
In this sense we hope, Commissioner, that you and the Commission will be able to grant Parliament' s wish, the wish which it has expressed here and in the documents of this legislation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to confine myself to three points.
There is much which needs to be said, but my colleagues have already contributed a great deal to the debate on fixed book prices.
As far as I am concerned, the first point is that we need to stress the importance of the specialist book trade, we need to build on quality, not quantity, we are in immediate need of a specialist trade, a supply of specialist literature, as far as the sciences and technical books are concerned, and of personal service and advice.
I also believe that it is in the interests of the promotion of SMEs, the preservation of which is an important factor in the European Union, and which is practised in the case of the specialist book trade in a very positive and demonstrative manner.
Secondly, I think it is very important to refer to the cross-border language area.
We are always talking about the diversity of European culture and about the diversity of languages, which are growing together but which still need to retain their own identity.
It is therefore imperative to be able to sell these books easily across borders.
The most important point for me is the cultural aspect of books and society' s obligation towards literature and art; it is precisely now, in an era of new media, that books need to be specially promoted and supported.
Art and culture are, as we know, a very important economic factor and so therefore are books.
When we look at printers, publishers, translators, the trade and much more besides, then we know how important the book trade is, how important art is, including for employment.
That should not mean, however, that we regard art and culture as purely economic factors.
Art and culture need social support.
They are a necessity, we have a responsibility towards them and we cannot deal with them in that respect under the normal rules of competition.
I should therefore like to urge you, Commissioner, to put the interests of large undertakings after culture, cultural diversity and the specialist trade. Make your decision in the case of books in accordance with the principles of French law and allow the German and Austrian book trade sufficient time to adapt fixed book prices to these principles.
I believe that this will fulfil a very important cultural brief, whereby the economy is perhaps only left standing temporarily.
I think that this, too, is a gain.
Mr President, Commissioner, I very much appreciate the fact that you have joined us here in Parliament to discuss the matter with us.
In my opinion, and I think I can speak on behalf of everyone here present, the availability of information is essential to our democracy and, as has been stated before, to maintain our level of cultural development.
I think that I would especially like to highlight this cultural aspect i.e. the cultural significance of books.
This is exactly the reason why books should have an exemption position in cultural policy.
In most countries, books are not subsidised, unlike other forms of culture, but this is not necessary.
In my opinion, the government should mainly play a stimulating role.
This is why in a large number of countries, including the Netherlands, which I represent, a decision has been made in favour of fixed book prices.
In this way, we can avoid a scenario where mutual competition is so unfair that the wide and varied supply would diminish and that the easy access to information would be lost.
You too have just noted yourself that Member States need to indicate themselves what measures they will take, whether they will conclude agreements or adopt legislation, but, Commissioner, language transcends boundaries.
This is why I would also like to ask you three questions concerning the cross-border fixed book price.
For various countries in Europe, this is an urgent matter.
Some things have just come to light regarding Germany and Austria, but also in the Netherlands, activities in this sphere are closely monitored.
This is important for the Dutch linguistic region but also, of course, for other linguistic regions.
The first question concerns the large-scale mobility of people and new developments via e-commerce, which lead to a gradual fading of the borders.
Do you not share my view that the lack of cross-border price fixing or, for example, its abolition, especially for small businesses - and with this I am back on the subject of employment - entails the risk that national regulations will be cancelled out by extensive importing? There is a risk that small bookshops will disappear, especially in the countryside and in smaller towns, and that with it, accessibility will decrease.
My second question to you concerns the key significance of cultural integration, as is also included in the preamble to the oral questions.
I actually feel that this aspect is given too little consideration.
Cultural integration which transcends national borders is restricted if the fixed book price were to be scrapped and it is of particular importance to promote it in countries which share the same language.
I think that fixed book prices are exactly the right instrument in this case.
I fully agree with the ladies and gentlemen.
The rules which are being drafted now should not be a hotchpotch.
Each country is coming up with something but it would be preferable to find better solutions for this.
I would like to urge you too to take swift action.
This is a very long-winded affair.
In my own profession, I have experienced exactly that for years and years.
I think the time is right to take some decisions.
Thirdly, I would like to express my concern regarding these detours because do you not think that because of these detours, it is easy to undermine the fixed book price from other Member States in the same linguistic region and that it is not a very effective means of safeguarding the special value of the book as a cultural object and the special significance of the book market for culture?
These are three points which I would like to highlight.
I believe that the consumer is not at all interested in lower prices.
The consumer wants quality which should be sound and widely available.
Mr President, Commissioner, for a member of the Greens, seven and a half minutes speaking time is a real shock to the system - I do not think we have ever had so much time.
You understand the importance of the subject.
I shall not repeat everything that has already been said and I may therefore not need the full seven and a half minutes.
You may perhaps even see that as an advantage.
For me personally, cross-border fixed book prices would represent a possible answer to the possible question: "What exactly is a European cultural policy?
What does it mean and what could it do?"
Apart from the market and competition, we also have Article 151.
This article, as we know, contradicts Article 81.
As Mr Rothley has already mentioned, an exemption would have been possible.
There was a transition period, but there was no exemption.
My question is, was that a political or was that a purely legal decision?
Is this Europe of the regions, are the slogans "cultural diversity" and "the Europe of common language areas" no more than election promises?
Is no serious work being carried out on them? From a purely legal point of view, Commissioner, you must intervene in this case, in the case of cross-border fixed book prices.
I do not understand, however, why Article 81 is valid for culture, but Article 151 is not valid for competition.
The paragraphs have different weights, legal texts are interpreted and the side which has more weight also has more merit.
Such is life.
But I see politics as an attempt to even things out, as an effort to strike a balance.
I am against neither the market nor competition, even if it may appear so.
As an artist I was exposed to competition day in, day out, I still am and sometimes it is a matter of keeping one' s head above water.
Perhaps that is precisely why I am in favour of competition, but I am also in favour of a European cultural policy.
However, I now have a problem Commissioner.
Sometimes we are not talking about the same things because we are using different studies.
You have just reminded us that the United Kingdom, like Ireland, has no book price fixing, despite the fact that they are the same language area.
You are forgetting that the huge American market also dominates these two countries to a large extent.
You are also forgetting the culturally different approach to books and that there is now a different approach to books in each Member State.
I am countering with arguments from a French study, which the Commission has only accepted in part, if at all.
You have been so kind as to promise to let me have a list of your studies, the studies on which you base your information and make your decisions, because as long as we are using different studies, we will be talking about different things and will not arrive at any conclusions.
In my view, neither the Council nor the Commission has taken over the cultural brief in this European Union in toto.
This is not meant as a slight on the promotion programmes, God forbid.
They are wonderful, they are a huge step in the right direction.
That is a hackneyed phrase, but I really mean it.
It is not enough, however; a European cultural policy is missing.
The European dimension of the promotional culture programme is embodied in books to the highest degree and it does not cost the Union a penny extra, it only costs the consumer or rather the 'dear reader' .
Books are not therefore just goods; they also have a cultural value, on that we are all agreed.
But what is the Commission doing about this?
I too am unable to absolve you, Commissioner for Competition, from responsibility for cultural policy.
We must not all decide strictly in a single direction without looking first to the left or right for ways of bringing things together.
I understand that a book is not a car and I thought that we had a legal basis for that.
However, that appears not to be the case.
I therefore ask you, Commissioner, to consider our motion for a resolution jointly.
We are all agreed that this could be a sign that competition does not behave as culture' s adversary, but as culture' s partner and that it can behave in support of cultural policy.
It can also be a sign that what we might call, on the basis of the French law, 'European' fixed book prices also give the Nation States a clear hint that they should assume responsibility rather than giving the standard response: 'that is being decided in Brussels' .
Then you could also take a huge step in the right direction!
Mr President, in 1998 the European Commission started a procedure intended to conclude a cross-border book price agreement between Germany and Austria.
Through this procedure, which was based on respect for European competition rules, the Commission was actually aiming to challenge the fixed book price system. Among other benefits, this system allows literary production to be supported and the survival of small publishing houses and bookshops to be assured.
The European Parliament reacted strongly by adopting virtually unanimously, on 20 November 1998, a resolution which defended fixed book prices and which called on the Commission to bring its Community policy on book price agreements into line with cultural requirements.
Under pressure from the French and German Governments, the Council used Parliament' s position to adopt a resolution on 8 February 1999 demanding, in particular, the continuation of the existing fixed book price systems.
The steadfastness shown by the Council and Parliament led the Commission to acknowledge that competition rules could not be systematically applied in the book sector.
It therefore confirmed that it had no intention of challenging the contractual agreements concluded in certain Member States or national laws such as the Lange Act in France.
Nevertheless, some months later, and after the installation of the new Commission, the Directorate-General for Competition is once again pushing the Commission to act against cross-border agreements and fixed book prices.
Faced with this new offensive by the Commission, which is bent on deregulation, it was important to react very quickly.
I am therefore delighted about this debate and the new position being taken by the European Parliament on this issue.
In its motion for a resolution, my group stresses that books are primarily cultural assets and must not therefore be subject to the competition rules in the same way as all other goods.
Their unique nature must be fully recognised in the context of the EU' s cultural policy which we are trying to develop.
This is why we hope that Parliament will confirm its position of November 1998 in order to defend cross-border agreements and fixed book prices.
Why will the Commission not take up our proposal to extend the fixed book price system to all Member States?
In order to take account of technological developments, the directive on e-commerce should also include the requirements indicated by the various national laws on fixed book prices to prevent this system from being circumvented.
To conclude, I hope that the Council will show the same steadfastness as this House in protecting and promoting the fixed book price system. This system, as noted by our motion for a resolution, is better than any other at improving the production and distribution of literary works without eliminating competition.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Dutch poet Lucebert wrote "Everything of value is defenceless."
These words are of great value in the debate on fixed book prices.
In fixed book pricing, there is certainly no 'sacred cow' for book lovers.
With words to the same effect, former Commissioner Van Miert once lashed out against those advocating the maintenance of fixed book pricing.
He very conveniently overlooked the fact that those against fixed book pricing very probably selected the market mechanism as if it were their "golden calf" .
The instrument of fixed book pricing and the corresponding restriction in exploiting the opportunities afforded by parallel importing reduce competition.
Cross-subsidisation will occur between good and bad expenditure.
The abolition of fixed book pricing results in increased competition and lower prices.
This would be in the interests of the consumer.
This line of reasoning seems to be sound, but it falls short on two important counts.
In the first place, the government is responsible for running society as a whole.
In carrying out this responsibility, it is completely unacceptable to society as a whole if it honours certain specific interests unilaterally and neglects others.
In this discussion, the government cannot just have the consumer' s partial interests at heart.
Secondly, the reasoning is based on the implied assumption that price is the only thing that matters to the consumer.
This is a rather one-sided view.
I have never met a consumer on the street with such blinkered views.
He only exists in theory.
Indeed, the real consumer also takes into account quality, diversity, accessibility and adequate distribution of the total supply of books.
That fixed book pricing only benefits publishers and bookshops is thus a fable and anyone who has read a story in a children' s book will know that fables are not entirely true.
People in favour of the abolition of fixed book pricing should also be aware of the consequences.
It is highly likely that diversity in the supply of bookshops will suffer.
Mass culture will be promoted.
This is, in the long run, fatal for the cultural education of citizens.
In my country, the Netherlands, there is also the consideration that fixed book pricing protects our relatively small linguistic region.
You could, in defence, bring up the argument that it is not up to the government to tutor or stimulate its citizens into cultural education and it therefore has no responsibility in terms of the richness in the variety of books supplied.
The government should abstain from exercising any influence and the market mechanism will balance out supply and demand.
This sounds neutral but it is not.
Implicitly, this point of view sees the effect of market forces as being the only right outcome.
In our society, the introduction of market forces seems to be the highest goal in virtually all areas of policy.
This viewpoint is a direct result of reversing ends and means.
The outcome of a liberal, strictly market-conforming policy is, by definition, not free from value judgement.
With such a policy, the government is making just as much of a value statement of what it believes is right or wrong.
It is especially important in the cultural sector that factors other than financial ones are part of the equation because things of great value also happen to be very vulnerable.
If the free market forces take over, we will soon have to switch Lucebert' s words around to "Everything is once more without value" .
We need to avoid this situation at all costs.
Mr President, in my own country, the United Kingdom, we had a long political debate over the value of resale price maintenance applied to books.
That debate ended with the abolition of the book price-fixing agreement.
There is no evidence from the United Kingdom of less choice, higher prices or of any reduction in specialist bookshops.
Indeed, the number of books sold and the number of publishing houses producing them appears to be increasing.
This is surely a good thing.
At least it seems so to me since I think that books exist to be read, or certainly that was the conclusion I reached when I studied English literature at university.
Certainly, under the principles of subsidiarity, if a Member State wishes to impose resale price maintenance on books, so be it.
Moreover, if two or more Member States wish to create an internal area of joint resale price maintenance in respect of books, good luck to them.
But this has to be compatible with the single market.
Any such statutory system must have no effect as regards books sold outside the limits of the Member States' jurisdiction.
Nor should it affect books brought in or brought back into it, an increasingly widespread and popular means of book-selling developing in conjunction with e-commerce, which is entirely in accordance with the principles of the single market, and provides enormous opportunities for small niche businesses.
Any suggestion that this should take place is illiberal.
It is contrary to the principles of the single market and, in my view, is de facto a form of censorship, and artificially rationing the supply of books in favour of the better-off.
Furthermore, I believe that it prejudices a proper and legitimate aspect of intra-European trade, threatening to reduce the movement of literature across Europe to the level of pornography sent through the post, so I am reliably informed, in unmarked brown manilla envelopes, and in the free world reducing the legitimate trade in books to the level of smuggling in and out of eastern Europe of so-called subversive literature.
I, for one at least, am not in favour of that because I believe it is old-fashioned, illiberal, reactionary and, in its longer-term effect, philistine.
Mr President, please believe that I know what I am talking about because my father owned a book shop.
My parents had a small book shop in a small town.
There was not much to do there, but anyway.
I can assure you that, without book price fixing, we could not have survived, which is why, Commissioner, your statements can only be felt as a disappointment and your presentation has made it clear that the question of cross-border book price fixing threatens to turn into an endless saga.
It is a truism to say that books are not goods like butter, eggs and cheese and that they are a cultural asset which cannot be dealt with under competition law like butter, eggs and cheese.
That does not alter the fact that there is printed matter which does not meet this claim.
However, the exception should not be seen here as the rule, nor should we take as a yardstick the fact that there are books which earn a great deal of money. Best-sellers are, indeed, the exception to the rule.
It is not right to see books merely as an economic asset.
Luckily, your predecessor, who represented this view, was clearly unable to make it stick.
So we still have reason to hope, but the danger has clearly not been averted, far from it.
Hence our urgent request, to which we expect a clear answer, Commissioner, that books should be seen as cultural products.
Obviously, national book price fixing systems are, thankfully, not disputed; consequently, the possibility must be granted for regulations such as those which now exist, for single cross-border language areas.
What has been preserved over a hundred years in the German-speaking area between Austria, Germany and Switzerland, what has permitted a large diversity of titles and has ensured that competition is not excluded and that there is a comprehensive supply of large and small bookshops in both town and country, should not be sacrificed to the unbridled and extortionate pressure of the market leaders, not in book shops, not in the mail order business and not in e-commerce.
As a cultural asset, books have the right to equal status in the various channels, including sales channels, to the reader.
The French regulation which, in addition to the national price fixing system, also includes regulations on imports, exports and re-imports, offers a way forward which is compatible with the EU and which has proven its worth in practice, which is why, Commissioner, the European Parliament is waiting, across the group divide as you will no doubt have seen, for the go-ahead for a similar legal or contractual regulation for Germany and Austria, in order to bring this endless saga to a happy ending at last.
Or do you prefer to expose yourself to the reproach that the Commission is a committee of philistines?
You should spare yourself this sad reputation.
You have to decide between culture and commerce.
Please opt for culture.
Commissioner, we have often discussed this matter in the past in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Listening to the debate here today, I can see that what was agreed between the Austrian and Germany book trade and the Commission has still found no place in this debate.
I can see, including from the speeches this week, that there is obviously a rapprochement here, on the basis of the recognition of the national book price fixing system and a regulation based on French law, which demonstrates, Commissioner Monti, that you are prepared to weigh the cultural aspect, which has formed part of the EC Treaty since Maastricht, against Article 85 of the EC Treaty, which requires you, as Commissioner for competition, to ensure that there are equal conditions of competition, thereby helping to ensure that consumers do not lose out in this respect.
The question is, how can it be done?
I am convinced that we are on the right track here.
We do not need to accuse the Commissioner of philistinism, because he is just doing his job as keeper of the treaties.
I think that if we can find an economically reasonable solution which the publishing houses agree with, if we can find a solution which recognises cultural language areas, if we can find a solution which does not incorporate the maximum limitation on competition within the level playing field required under Article 85, then we are on the right track towards a reasonable regulation.
In principle, therefore, I support the motion for a resolution as tabled here by Mr Rothley.
However, reference to the Commission' s obligation to comply with competition regulations is missing.
This should be added, otherwise we shall lose credibility and we shall put Mr Monti in an awkward position which he certainly does not deserve, because I have confidence in your informed judgement.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have discussed this issue on many occasions in the past and views have been exchanged.
Account has even been taken of recent developments.
I should therefore like to stress just a few points once again.
First, politics means shaping; politics means shaping the habitat and coexistence of people.
Secondly, the book trade is more to us than simply a sales network for books.
It creates identities and books create identities.
Thirdly, the question at issue for me is not merely cross-border trade between Austria and Germany, although that is the starting point; it is the question of the role of language areas and the role of cultural areas.
For us the relevant market is the market to which the book relates and it cannot be reduced to national borders.
For us it is, in this respect, the language and cultural area, hence the importance of cross-border fixed book prices.
It is obvious to us Austrians that a national regulation alone is not enough and that we also need an import clause and an export clause and to use the French model as a basis, because the language area and the cultural area transcend our national borders.
Commissioner, you said that you had never seen the need for conflict between culture and the market.
I share this view, provided that we state clearly what we mean by market and what we mean by the purpose of competition policy.
You said at your hearing that you were striving for competition policy and the market to further develop into a social market economy.
A social and ecological market economy includes protection for cultural assets and signals market definition.
This is precisely our debate, which is why I appeal to you to define clearly the relevant market in this context as a language and cultural area, to clarify import clauses together with the possibility for national regulation and to apply the French law to your judgement and considerations.
Mr President, I would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, which I found worthwhile both from a political and a cultural point of view.
I would like to assure the participants in the debate that the Commission, and myself personally, attach a lot of importance, as you do, to culture and books, and we recognise the cultural importance of books and are ready to take into account these specific features.
Mr Karas mentioned that I have already stated that I wish competition policy to be an element of the social market economy: I confirm this and ask you all not to consider competition as an abstract concept and the citizens' enemy.
Competition is the main ally of individual citizens.
Competition' s main aim is to safeguard consumer interests from the point of view both of prices and quality, as well as to safeguard small and medium-sized businesses against the excesses of large businesses, in many cases.
For this reason, just as I am prepared to give full recognition to the importance of culture, I am asking you not to become intellectual victims of an approach whereby competition is not a major ally of citizens.
The task of competition is to combat cartels, the abuse of dominant positions and mergers, and to create more possibilities for economic freedom, and we know that economic freedom is often accompanied by civil freedom too, as shown by the past experience of countries which did not have economic freedom.
I therefore believe that there is room for a harmonious interaction between cultural policy and competition policy, without creating futile and forced counter-stances.
The evidence provided by Lord Inglewood, which can be found in other countries as well, shows that the abolition of a fixed price system does not necessarily bring about disruptive consequences in terms of prices and quality of books.
Yet I want it to be very clear that the Commission is not working for the abolition of fixed price systems for books as such.
Frankly, Mrs Juncker, I wonder whether you and I were in the same room when I spoke because I am very surprised that you say that the Commission wants to eliminate the price maintenance system.
May I repeat literally what I said in Italian:
"The Commission believes that national systems of fixed book prices, based on agreements between companies, are compatible with Community competition rules if they do not significantly affect trade between Member States."
I also said: "As for systems based on regulations" - that is, the other possibility, not agreements but regulations - "each Member State is free to adopt regulations as long as they are compatible with the principle, sanctioned by the Treaty, of the free movement of goods" .
Therefore, please, let us not depict the Commission as an institution which sets out to do things that in reality it has no intention of doing.
I have repeatedly said that we will not oppose, nor can we oppose, fixed book price systems at national level.
We must only prevent telling distortions arising from the fact that this is a cross-border issue.
I have already said, as regards the specific German/Austrian case, where proceedings are on-going, that unfortunately I cannot discuss it in detail here. I can, however, assure you that I made an enormous effort, in my first three months in office, to meet the parties concerned and pinpoint prospects for a positive outcome.
In this respect, I found Mr Langen' s intervention constructive, as he seems to recognise that such a prospect exists.
(EN) Finally, Mrs Echerer reminded us all in this room that we have different backgrounds.
She is right.
Unfortunately, my background is not that of an actor.
I would not dare to define myself as a man of culture, far from it, but I spent my life until five years ago as a university professor and my life has been spent between books as an instrument for work and they are something I deeply respect and love.
I believe I am as sensitive as anybody here to the importance of books, of culture.
It is simply my job to try to preserve all the positive values that are embedded in them, avoiding at the same time some excesses that may be to the detriment of the reader.
Thank you very much for your attention.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place this evening.
(The sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
Topical and urgent subjects of major importance
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Indonesia
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
B5-0339/1999 by Mr Titley, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in Indonesia and East Timor;
B5-0350/1999 by Mrs Lynne, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on Indonesia;
B5-0366/1999 by Mr Nassauer and others, on Indonesia and East Timor;
B5-0377/1999 by Mrs Hautala and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on the situation in Indonesia and East Timor;
B5-0382/1999 by Mr Miranda and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Indonesia.
I would like to begin on a positive note.
I think we should recognise that there is now a new democratically-elected government in Indonesia and that, for the first time in 40 years, there is now a civilian defence minister.
Therefore, we should, as the international community, be seeking to support that democratic government in Indonesia.
However, in the same week as we gave Mr Gusmão the Sakharov Prize, we must be careful not to drop our guard too far.
We must consider that although there is a civilian defence minister in Indonesia, the defence ministry is still heavily militarised.
Clearly we would want to see greater democratisation of the defence ministry in Indonesia.
We must also recognise that there is still considerable abuse by the armed forces against those who wish to express a desire for autonomy in parts of Indonesia.
Clearly while that persecution is going on by the Indonesian military we would not also be wanting to support that or give any message of support.
We also know that in West Timor, the Indonesian military have not disarmed or disbanded the militias yet.
They are still terrorising something like 200 000 East Timorese refugees who are trapped in West Timor.
They are obstructing UN efforts in order to repatriate these people to East Timor.
We want to see those militias disarmed and disbanded as soon as possible.
We also know that the Indonesian military are opposed to cooperating with the UN International Commission of Inquiry set up to investigate crimes against humanity in East Timor.
We want to see the Indonesian military cooperate fully with UN investigations.
For that reason the EU should be extending its four-month old arms embargo on arms sales to Indonesia because if we were to lift that arms embargo the signal we would give to the military is very clearly that they are acceptable and have been rehabilitated, whereas, as I have just outlined, that is far from being the case.
I recognise there is a strong argument for saying that if we do not provide arms to Indonesia they will go elsewhere to buy them, to China or to Russia, for example.
Nonetheless, it is important for us to make a clear statement that we want to see reform of the Indonesia military.
We want to see greater civilian and democratic control and we want to see greater respect for human rights in Indonesia.
That has not yet happened and now is not the time to lift the arms embargo.
I put this resolution forward on behalf of the ELDR Group because I believe the EU arms embargo should not be lifted on 17 January.
What we should have instead is an extension of that arms embargo.
It would be definitely unacceptable to lift it.
The army have failed miserably to disarm and disband the militia.
They have been terrorising between a hundred and two hundred thousand refugees in West Timor.
They are not allowing aid workers into the camps.
In one camp 160 have died.
90% of those were children under five.
As has already been said, they are not cooperating with the UN International Commission for Crimes Against Humanity and they are also committing crimes and atrocities in Aceh and West Papua.
One case I heard of recently was that the police and the army together beat up a young man. He was going to look for his mother.
They beat him up and interrogated him and kicked him to the ground.
After that they poured gasoline over him and burnt him alive.
That was in North Aceh.
It is still happening.
The Indonesian Army and the militia and the police are still committing these atrocities.
To raise the embargo would give totally wrong signals.
I heard also recently about a secret defence intelligence report from Australia.
Some of the EU countries did not want to agree to the ban in the first place.
Some EU Member States put financial gain above human rights and I do not believe that that is acceptable.
While the Indonesian army is still engaged in acts of repression, the embargo must stay.
Mr President, the key question is whether or not the arms embargo decided by the Council in September of this year as part of the restrictive measures against Indonesia should be extended beyond January next year.
I think, having weighed up the pros and cons, that the right decision is to maintain the embargo.
This allows us to send out two different signals.
First, we want to bolster the development of democracy in Indonesia.
It has, without doubt, maintained momentum with the democratic change of power in Indonesia and we want to and we must encourage the democratic forces in Indonesia.
We must also recognise that the role of the army continues to be highly problematic, to put it mildly.
There have been atrocities not only in East Timor, which is now to gain independence, but also in Aceh and other parts of Indonesia.
What we have to do is make it clear to the army that it is now being closely watched by the public worldwide, especially in the EU, and that we take the liberty of drawing our conclusions from the behaviour of the military.
At the moment, these conclusions must be that we are not prepared to supply this military with any more weapons, irrespective of whether or not the fear that they will now obtain these weapons from China is justified.
We, in all events, should not render ourselves guilty of this arms supply.
I therefore advocate, after careful consideration, that we vote to maintain this embargo, because it is a signal to the army in Indonesia and we hope that it is also a signal to the democratic forces in Indonesia which, we may assume, will be encouraged by our stance.
Like other speakers, I would like to support the call for the arms embargo to remain.
As has been said already, it would be completely unacceptable that the arms embargo be lifted, especially in the light of the fact that the Indonesian military have failed to disarm.
We should send out a signal that what they are doing is unacceptable.
The only justification for lifting the arms embargo would be in the interests of profit.
Many Member States of the European Union have a lot to answer for as regards their own support in the past for the Indonesian authority while it was oppressing the people of East Timor, and also for the fact that these countries and their arms manufacturing firms have made huge profits at the expense of innocent lives and the wellbeing of people and the right of people to live freely without oppression and human rights abuses.
What is happening in East Timor as regards the aid workers is unacceptable.
What the Indonesian authorities are doing there has to be challenged.
As Mrs Lynne has already said, it is not acceptable that the aid workers do not have access to the camps where people are dying.
We stood idly by for too long after the referendum.
We should have done something long before.
The signal was already there.
Despite our past failure to ensure that people were not killed, the onus is now on us to ensure that in future no message of support goes out to the Indonesian authorities as it stands.
They are showing contempt for the wish and will of the international community as regards the right of people to live in peace, the right of people not to be oppressed, the right of people not to be killed with weapons made by western countries.
If China is going to supply weapons to Indonesia that does not justify the European Union lifting its arms embargo.
Two wrongs do not make a right.
What we should also be doing is challenging the fact that China may in fact provide arms.
This is also unacceptable.
China gets away with a huge amount of wrong-doing and it is about time we stood up to them as well.
A clear signal has to go out to the Indonesian authorities that we are no longer going to accept their contempt for the wish of the international community for human rights and peace.
Mr President, like the previous speakers, I would say that the signs of change in Indonesia are obvious.
The search for new paths, marked out by the universal values that characterise constitutional States, that is being led by Mr Wahid' s government deserves the appreciation of the international community.
It is nevertheless too early to assess how well their intentions will succeed.
There are fundamental questions that still need to be answered.
How is Indonesia going to address the problems of Aceh, the Moluccas and West Papua?
How will it resolve the problem of the Timorese refugees who are now just currency in the hands of pro-Indonesian militias?
What will be their attitude towards the crimes committed by Indonesian soldiers in East Timor, where they were the occupying force, as well as in some Indonesian provinces?
What role will the Indonesian armed forces play?
Will they be able to adapt to a constitutional state or will they continue to be a force within a force?
In terms of the relationship between the European Union and its Member States with the Republic of Indonesia at the moment, the only sensible course of action is to uphold the decisions of the Council of 16 and 17 October, when restrictions were established that included a ban on the sale of weapons.
Mr President, since his official appointment over one and a half months ago, President Wahid has already made fifteen foreign visits.
However, the Indonesian Head of State did not visit a single one of the many acute hotspots at home until earlier this week.
Moreover, the national political elite had to make a detour in Ambon in order to reach the civil governor' s residence by warship.
It seems that President Wahid travels more safely abroad than in his own archipelago - a fateful sign!
Such an impossible situation requires political decisiveness.
After all, we know what the consequences were: an estimated seven hundred casualties on the Moluccas this year alone.
Add to this more than one thousand victims on East Timor, and this is not taking into account the massive unrest and bloodshed in Aceh, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.
We could reasonably expect the new Indonesian government to take action in three fundamental areas: restoring public order, prosecuting and punishing those who have blood on their hands and entering into a political dialogue with the opposition.
After all, blunt military repression of opposition forces only leads to a nigh hopeless spiral of violence.
The present resolution thus makes an emphatic appeal to the Indonesian authorities.
This is why we gladly subscribe to the resolution.
We have since received reports that one of the key culprits of the East Timorese tragedy, the militia leader Tavares, has suddenly decided to disband the murderous gangs and wishes to walk the path of reconciliation.
The timing of this 'U-turn' seems highly suspect.
Indeed, today sees the start of the International Donor Conference for East Timor in Japan.
Surely the looters of yesterday could not be the subsidisers of tomorrow!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes this debate with open arms, as it does the contributions made to this debate so far, for they demonstrate that the European Union is conscious of the responsibility it has for developments in Indonesia and that it wants to continue in its endeavours to bring about a stable and democratic order there.
This is the principle on which our policy is based and nothing will change in this regard.
I quite agree with those who have pointed out that, all problems aside, there have also been some extremely positive developments in Indonesia, which are deserving of support.
The new government has been democratically elected.
It appears to be committed to tackling the urgent problems.
It is endeavouring to resolve the aforementioned regional unrest in Aceh and Irian Jaya and the ethnic tensions in the Moluccas, by means of peaceful dialogue and constitutional reform, and I believe it is crucially important that there is a national commission on human rights that is dealing with human rights issues.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it will only be possible to tackle regional tensions and demands for more autonomy or for independence if a regime, a system, is introduced in Indonesia, that truly guarantees unambiguous political accountability and transparency of statecraft, and lives up to the expectations of the large, democratically-minded majority of citizens.
The Commission is aware that there are still huge challenges to be met in Indonesia.
Firstly, I might mention the fact that the army needs to be reformed, secondly that a stable system of law and order needs to be introduced.
Continuing in that vein, there is a need to put a stop to corruption, to resolve the social problems arising from the economic crisis in Asia and to give renewed impetus to the badly affected Indonesian economy.
Permit me to make a few further remarks on East Timor in this connection, and then I also want to say something about the arms embargo.
I believe that reconstruction in East Timor presents the international community with a very special challenge.
Timor stands out on account of the scale of damage and violence and the singular political situation there.
That is why we want to, and must, help achieve a comprehensive solution to the problems there, under the auspices of the United Nations.
Then there is also the question as to how this state is to be constructed and how human rights are to be secured there.
The Commission has already involved itself here and will continue to involve itself.
Supporting East Timor is a high-priority task as far as we are concerned.
This was illustrated by Mr Nielson' s visit to East and West Timor a few weeks ago.
So far, the Commission has made a total of EUR 33.5 million available for humanitarian aid and reconstruction measures.
The Commission is also to participate in the Donor Conference due to take place in Tokyo tomorrow and which has already been mentioned here.
A concrete programme is to be decided on there.
The Commission intends to see to it that technical assistance is provided in Dili, with a view to ensuring effective implementation of the programmes.
I believe that what we need to do in the very near future in East Timor is to implement the necessary humanitarian measures efficiently.
The repatriation of refugees has begun.
The Indonesian government has assured us that the voluntary repatriation process will soon be concluded.
We intend to keep a very watchful eye on this and, if we detect any hold-ups, then we will bring pressure to bear on the Indonesian government.
In our view, it is up to the United Nations to take the leading role in coordinating all the donors' endeavours.
That is why the Commission believes that all donors should work closely with UNTAET.
The East Timorese should play a part in all aspects of the reconstruction and development process.
The Commission believes that the advisory council, which also contains representatives of various political groupings, has an important role to play.
And so, all in all, although there are positive signs in Indonesia and East Timor, still there is cause for concern and unease.
It is for this very reason that the European Parliament considers this debate to be a necessary one and this is completely in line with the Commission' s intentions and deliberations.
You are aware that the Council has sole responsibility for the arms embargo issue, which has been discussed on a number of occasions here.
Consequently, I only have a certain amount of room for manoeuvre where this is concerned, but I believe that I can say this much: the Commission hopes that the Members of the Council will not only be notified of the arguments that have been presented here but also act on them.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Peace process in Sierra Leone
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
B5-0333/1999 by Mrs Lucas and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on Sierra Leone;
B5-0340/1999 by Mrs Kinnock and Mr Howitt, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the peace process in Sierra Leone;
B5-0352/1999 by Mrs Thors and others, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the peace process in Sierra Leone;
B5-0367/1999 by Mrs Ferrer and others, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, on the situation in Sierra Leone.
Mr President, after eight years of infernal civil war, the situation in Sierra Leone is desperate.
Although a peace agreement was signed in Lomé in July, on 22 November, a UN investigation team sadly noted once again a significant deterioration.
The terror against the civilian population in certain parts continues, as do the killings, rape, incarceration and arming of children.
This leads me to raise two specific questions, Mr President, Commissioner, which we need to ask ourselves in all honesty, both as a Commission and as a Union.
Can we allow this arms trade to continue?
We know that diamonds - smuggled diamonds, in particular - play a crucial role in this.
Can we continue to turn a blind eye?
Secondly, for the sake of maintaining the peace agreement, a pledge was made to deploy UN peace-keeping troops.
Is the mandate of these troops powerful enough or should we not find out as a matter of urgency what this comes down to in practice other than paying a few mercenaries to be stationed in safe zones?
The situation in Sierra Leone continues to be extremely unstable.
The peace agreement offered improved conditions to only a very small number of the RUF hierarchy.
As the rains in Sierra Leone have come to an end, the campaign of violence and terror against the civilian population has resumed.
To improve things we need to change the quality of government.
It is a country which was highly educated and highly law-abiding.
It is being ruined by international money laundering: diamonds are more easy to exchange internationally than money.
But the poor respect both education and humanitarian values and they respect democracy.
Soon there will be another general election.
We should support that push for democracy.
They have earned their chance to vote.
I call upon the European Parliament and the European Commission to give funding for education, basic justice and democracy immediately.
Mr President, after eight years - as we have been reminded - of a bloody civil war, the peace agreement signed on 7 July of this year provided the opportunity to end this tragic period and resolve, in a peaceful and lasting way, a conflict which has caused immense suffering to the population.
Nevertheless, the hopes which gave rise to this agreement have not been fulfilled and today, five months later, we must note with great concern and sorrow that the rebel attacks against civilians, the killings and rapes, have not only failed to diminish, but have actually increased.
Therefore, we Christian Democrats, who have always defended the use of dialogue and reconciliation, wish to repeat our complete condemnation of the acts of violence and violations of human rights which are still being carried out and deplore the delay in the development of the peace process.
However, above all, we wish to call on the parties in the conflict to abandon arms for good and respect the commitments contained in the agreement.
Since words are not enough, however, and actions are required, we earnestly request that measures be adopted and means provided that will allow compliance with the agreement.
In particular, the Security Council of the United Nations must decide to go ahead with the deployment of international peacekeeping forces.
Also, the necessary funds must be provided so that the agreement may be put into effect; particularly - and this has already been mentioned - with regard to the promotion of development and education, of all those measures which will finally allow the population of Sierra Leone to come together and live in peace, freedom and democracy.
Mr President, I think that the current situation in Sierra Leone sets a dangerous precedent, not only for Africa but also for the rest of the world.
In July, a peace agreement was concluded between the government and the RUF rebels.
This is laudable, if it were not for the fact that we are dealing with one of the world' s cruellest rebel groups, without a political goal other than gaining control over the diamond.
One of the goals of the peace agreement is to provide general amnesty, for crimes against citizens as well.
It offers the rebels various ministerial posts and also the important presidency of a committee authorised to exploit and export minerals.
This is a worrying sign: a sign that terror works; that the mutilation and killing of citizens not only remains unpunished, but even pays; that any warlord could take up arms against a democratically elected government and be rewarded into the bargain.
For the government, the peace agreement is a pragmatic solution.
Indeed, President Kabbah does not have his own army.
He completely relies on the West African peace-keeping force ECOMOG and on the Nigerians, in particular, but they have already announced that they wish to retreat from this bloody war.
This means that the President now has his back against the wall.
This is why the European Union must urge the UN to deploy the peace-keeping force quickly in order to end the terror.
This is why more should be invested in the programme for the disarmament of rebels.
Finally, we need to continue to advocate a form of justice on behalf of the thousands of victims of this terror movement.
If not, a scenario similar to that in neighbouring Liberia is likely to present itself, where people choose a warlord for fear that he would otherwise take up arms again.
This is, I think, totally unacceptable.
Mr President, to term these on-going brutalities in Sierra Leone as bestial is an insult to animals.
After eight years of civil war, the road to peace seemed finally clear but the abhorrent brutalities, in particular those against women and children, carry on relentlessly.
Child soldiers are abused on a large scale to pander to the malafide interests of adults.
It is impossible to stabilise and reconstruct the country as long as citizens continue to be slaughtered.
Europe should make a financial contribution to implement the DDR Programme.
Diamond smuggling must be addressed efficiently.
European support for rehabilitation programmes is also essential.
Indeed, good mental and physical guidance of the victims is urgently required.
It is also vitally important for enduring peace that the guilty parties are brought to justice rather than being appointed to ministers.
When are the animals returning to their cages?
Mr President, as many previous speakers have said, Sierra Leone offers the absolutely worst example of what happens when a country uses child soldiers.
In our Finnish newspapers, we could read a week or two ago about an eighteen year-old girl who had been compulsorily recruited, had suffered an amputation and had been raped.
She could see no future and no hope.
For me, her story represents everything that is so horrific about the use of child soldiers and forces us to think about what we can do about this.
We should also note that a third of the child soldiers who have been recruited in Sierra Leone are still mere girls.
We should demand - and I hope that the Commission also does so - that the President should respect the agreement once entered into with Unicef.
This means that Unicef should be allowed to work in the country in order to rehabilitate children who have suffered psychological damage.
I believe that Unicef is the organisation which has far and away the greatest experience of this work.
I therefore believe that, in the future, we should in every way support precisely this organisation, for it is psychological damage above all that the children are suffering from and which makes many of them want to return to the military forces.
It is this that is one of the most serious threats for the future.
Mr President, here too, I should like, on behalf of the Commission, to welcome expressly the fact that the European Parliament has turned its attention to this subject this afternoon.
I think it is very important that we make it clear that the horrific human rights violations such as those which we have seen and which we are seeing in Sierra Leone are a matter of concern to all Europeans because it is our understanding that human rights and human dignity are indivisible throughout the world and we will not tolerate a selective perception which results in our taking a closer interest in acts of violence in our own region than in the eruptions of violence which we have witnessed in Sierra Leone for several years now.
I agree with those who have said that there are few conflicts in the world which are as barbaric, as bloodthirsty and, unfortunately, as hopeless, as far a political solution is concerned, as this conflict in Sierra Leone.
The peace agreement concluded in July was welcomed at the time by the European Union.
We called on all parties to help implement it and stated that we ourselves were prepared to do so.
We could see that it would be very difficult and we could see that, in the final analysis, all the conditions for a working, stable, democratic rule of law in Sierra Leone would have to be created anew and that there was only limited willingness to cooperate.
Like Parliament, we are therefore extremely worried about the latest violations of the ceasefire and we are concerned that the peace agreement is only being implemented slowly, if at all.
Nonetheless, we must ask ourselves what we can do to help the tormented victims of this conflict.
Merely stating that the situation is horrific does not help, which is why we are starting by offering concrete help with reintegration with the disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration programme.
Since 1997, the Commission has been financing reconstruction of the social and economic infrastructure destroyed by the war through its rehabilitation programme.
With the help of this programme, families settling there and former fighters are obtaining jobs and an income.
We are currently working on a bigger programme to the tune of some EUR 20 million to support reconstruction and reintegration.
This programme should replace the current programme, which expires in the middle of next year.
Further help to resettle rural communities is being given in the form of agricultural resources and is being funded under the food security budget line.
ECHO will also provide further humanitarian aid.
In 1999, non-governmental organisations and UN organisations received EUR 14 million for the benefit of the people who had suffered during the war.
It included aid for Sierra Leone - refugees in neighbouring Liberia and Guinea and, as referred to here, help for NRO, which gives psychological and social support in the refugee camps, has initiated aid programmes for demobilised child soldiers and is addressing the particularly gruelling problem of mutilated children in order to give them some prospects in life.
The lady Member just said that these children had no prospects.
I do not think we should accept that so readily. I think that we should do everything we can to give these children a dignified life.
I should like to remind you that the scope of humanitarian aid in Sierra Leone does not depend on the funds available but on the security situation in the country itself.
At present, the aid organisations are severely hampered in their work by the insecurity which prevails in the northern and eastern provinces of the country.
Whether or not there is additional impetus in the disarmament process and hence an improvement in the security situation will depend this month on the arrival of the UNAMSL forces, the UN mission to Sierra Leone.
The Commission is currently preparing further help for the year 2000.
We are, in fact, discussing further aid for the children affected by the war with UNICEF, the Ministry of Social Affairs and with various groups from civilian society.
I should like to stress here that the Commission will always be prepared to examine proposals from these groups for action in the human rights sector.
The Commission is also prepared to examine funding for the Truth and Reconciliation Committee being set up under its budget line for human rights and democracy.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Human rights
Mr President, I am pleased that we in Europe can say that the death penalty has been abolished.
The abolition of the death penalty belongs, as it were, to our culture.
Unfortunately, however, we did not see the abolition of the death penalty in the UN in 1999.
We all know that the death penalty is still on the agenda in Iran, Turkey, China and Yemen.
I find it particularly tragic that America, the land which champions freedom and human rights, has maintained the death penalty.
At the moment, two European Union citizens are on death row, a Spaniard in Yemen and an Italian in the USA, a Mr Barnabei, who is due to be executed in the year 2000.
Mr Barnabei, who was previously a respectable man, is accused of having killed a young woman.
This is my cause for concern insofar as, like me, he is an Italian citizen.
I urge the Commission and, of course, this Parliament, to do everything it can to get this death sentence commuted to life imprisonment or postponed, not just because leading American legal experts have indicated that there may be a miscarriage of justice, as is often the case, but also because he is an EU citizen.
Mr President, it once again falls to the European Parliament to condemn the death penalty, the greatest violation of human rights which is still being committed in the world, often and to all our shame, under the protection of laws which have been created by men who represent the sovereignty of the people.
Today we are talking about the sentencing of two European citizens, a Spaniard and an Italian, who have been condemned to death, as has already been said, in Yemen and the United States respectively.
In the case of the Spanish citizen, Nabil Nanakli, furthermore, there is no sufficient information regarding the trial, arrest and current situation of the prisoner, which has mobilised the entire Muslim community.
We have stated in this House that they is no such thing as a just death penalty, that no human being may condemn to death or execute another human being, that there is no recourse to any law, to any sovereignty, to the independence of any State, which can justify this violation of life itself.
The defence of human rights is at the very heart of our Union.
To globalise the respect for human rights must be our prime objective.
I am not making - and this Parliament is not once again making - a humanitarian declaration.
It is a political commitment, it is Politics with a capital 'P' , and it is the European Union' s foreign policy.
Therefore, I would like to draw attention to point 5 of our Resolution, which says that we repeat our request to the Council to incorporate into negotiations with third countries - with all of them - "the abolition of the death penalty as part of the human rights clause" .
We expect a response from the Council in this respect; a response and a commitment which is also political.
I have received a book which has been published to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Council of Europe, a book whose title reads "Europe, all of us under the same roof" .
Let us be ambitious, let us extend the European roof, let us extend our civilisation, let us put into practice a phrase which, fortunately, this book quotes.
In the words of Albert Camus: "Neither in people' s hearts nor in the customs of society will there be peace while the death penalty remains legal" .
Mr President, for a Christian, requesting a moratorium on capital punishment and its abolition is not just a duty or a proper act, but an ethical choice made out of respect for people who have done wrong and who can and must redeem themselves.
We are opposed to deaths caused by man' s interference, such as abortion and euthanasia.
A guilty verdict is irrelevant to this request.
We would ask for this moratorium even if the person were a confessed criminal and there is all the more reason for us to do it when there may be reasonable doubt about their guilt.
If, on the basis of formal documents on civil rights, we ask for humane conditions in prisons, there is all the more reason for us to oppose the death penalty and we cannot therefore understand how countries that are recognised as civilised can still have cruel and uncivilised regulations.
Finally, I would like to stress that, taking the modern view of studying the consequences of criminal judgements, the punishment should fulfil a rehabilitative function, enabling the citizen who has done wrong to take up his place in civil society again.
Knowing these values, we are firmly reasserting our request for a moratorium on capital punishment for the two condemned citizens in Virginia and the Yemen.
Mr President, we are not today invoking an abstract principal but are intervening on behalf of a young Italo-American, Derek Rocco Barnabei, 33 years of age, who has been living on death row in a prison in Virginia for six years, with the daily nightmare that he may die for a crime that, in all likelihood, he did not commit.
How many others are in the same position?
How many others, like him, do not have the necessary funds to pay for lawyers or the expensive analyses which could, perhaps, completely exonerate them?
It is our duty to continue protesting about the death sentence, and as the Pope did last Sunday, to continue to clearly call for the moratorium proposed by Italy to at least be applied to the member nations of the UN.
We are keeping the hope alive that the third millennium will start with this proposal being accepted.
In the meantime, we are continuing to do practical work, by backing initiatives such as the one in Tuscany which aims to raise funds to allow Rocco Barnabei to carry out DNA tests to prove his innocence, and inviting you, President, to use all the means at your disposal to ensure that the message of Parliament and the European institutions gets through to the American authorities.
Right of women to vote in Kuwait:
Mr President, it is regrettable that, at the close of the 20th century, a century symbolised so positively by the peaceful women' s revolution, there are still countries, such as Kuwait and Afghanistan, where half the population, women that is, is still denied fundamental human rights.
In Kuwait, at the end of November, the parliament rejected the proposal to recognise a woman' s right to vote or to stand for election with 32 votes against and 30 votes in favour. This is not only a violation of human rights for women and an abhorrent political act but, paradoxically enough, it is an infringement of the Constitution of Kuwait, Article 29 of which stipulates that "all citizens are equal before the law, regardless of gender, religion, race or ethnic background" .
What is more, Kuwait is a signatory to the UN' s International Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
It appears that the members of the Legislative Assembly - all men of course - are not bound by the country' s Constitution or by laws or international obligations, or by the political will of the leadership of the country which submitted the relevant decree for adoption.
However, this decision, apart from its antiquated misogynistic and deeply antidemocratic nature, is a clear message of resistance against any attempts to modernise and democratise the country.
That is why the European Parliament needs to send a strong message of support and solidarity to the women of Kuwait who are fighting for their fundamental rights.
We also call upon the representative of the National Assembly to make all possible efforts to review the issue and to restore justice for women so that by the next elections in 2003, the women of Kuwait will have full political rights to vote and to stand for election.
Mr President, the state of Kuwait offers many opportunities for able women today.
Dr Rasha Al-Sabah, the long-serving Under-Secretary of Higher Education, is joined by Dr Fayezah Al-Khorafi, President of the University of Kuwait; Her Excellency Nabila Al-Mulla, who is Ambassador of the State of Kuwait to Austria; Siham Ruzuqi, the Assistant Under-Secretary at the Ministry of Oil; another Assistant Under-Secretary: Sarah Duwaisan at the Ministry of Planning; and in civil society: Shaikha Hussah Al-Salim Al-Mubarek Al-Sabah, the President of Dar Al-Athar Al-Islamiya, the Islamic Museum of Kuwait.
It is not surprising with this record of achievement of highly able women in Kuwait that, on 16 May 1999, His Highness the Prince of the State of Kuwait issued an official decree giving the Kuwaiti woman the right of voting and of nomination to parliament, but it is parliament who has turned this down.
Despite this, the Kuwaiti Parliament is different from the other parliaments of the Arabian Gulf.
The 50 Members of Parliament are directly elected, not nominated, not appointed as is the case in other Arab Gulf States.
The Members of Parliament can question ministers in parliament at any time.
That questioning can be so fierce that it can even lead to the resignation of ministers.
Also, the parliament controls the government's annual budget.
I believe that there will be another vote before too long, perhaps within two or three months, because this is a democratically elected parliament.
It is unthinkable that universal suffrage in a democracy will not be achieved in the end.
As a parliamentarian, therefore, I call upon my fellow parliamentarians - here and in our national parliaments too - to urge Kuwaiti parliamentarians to give women that right to vote and stand.
That is an historic step forward and one that I believe they will not regret.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words on the resolution concerning the right of Kuwaiti women to vote, a situation which is extremely worrying.
It touches fundamental human rights.
This right is also laid down in the Kuwaiti Constitution, as is stipulated in the resolution and it is, of course, commendable that the Kuwaiti government and parliament have implemented the same.
It is, however, unfortunate, how this came about.
The bill was not passed for two reasons.
Firstly, it was not submitted correctly as the emir did this during recess and secondly, the rank and file did not subscribe to it, so there is also an issue with the rank and file.
So the emir submitted the bill during recess.
This is why MPs who agreed with the content voted against it out of protest against the procedure.
The same was true for fifteen ministers who have voting rights in parliament.
The second issue which forms part of the larger picture is mainly an issue to do with the local government officials.
They are all men and they have shown little enthusiasm when it comes to women joining them in the local government.
This is why the MPs have voted against, often for fear of their own rank and file - there is no party structure but people are elected directly - and for fear of their own positions.
Hence my plea, Mr President.
If a clause is added to paragraph 4 in the resolution that a delegation is to go to Kuwait, then the issues of local government will also need to be addressed, as well as the procedural issue, because it is extremely awkward if such an important bill were not to be passed due to a procedural error.
I look forward to a positive outcome to the vote on this resolution.
Mr President, every time we hear in this Parliament about the denial of basic human rights, like the right to vote or the right to stand for election, it should serve to strengthen our own resolve to promote and improve democracy in all parts of the world.
So, although the vote of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November to deny those very rights to women in Kuwait was a deep disappointment, it offers some hope for the future.
The closeness of the vote in November has strengthened the resolve of the women and men in Kuwait who are working for this change in the law.
They have pledged not to give up the campaign.
They have set the 2003 general and municipal elections as their target for the first time that women will ever vote in Kuwait.
They are going to put forward a women's rights bill every year in the National Assembly until they succeed in doing that.
While we condemn the decision of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November it is also important for us to use our elected positions as parliamentarians to encourage and support those who want to bring about change.
After all, it is not so long ago that women in many European Union countries were engaged in years of campaign and protest to win the right to vote and stand in elections.
This was what brought about that change.
In the United Kingdom, for example, the suffrage movement was set up in 1860.
It was not until 1918 that some women - not all - got the right to vote.
It was not until 1928 that all women in the United Kingdom got the right to vote.
So we have been through these campaigns before in other countries.
If we look at an international level, by 1990 women had the right to vote in almost every country where men could vote as well.
Only Kuwait extended the vote to men and not to women.
While it is difficult for most of us even to comprehend this kind of system, we have a responsibility to the people working there to support them in every way we can.
Situation of women in Afghanistan:
Mr President, I would like to thank the other parliamentary groups for their support and for their contributions to this initiative in favour of Afghan women.
I believe that the whole world is aware of their situation and for this reason has supported this initiative.
By defending their rights we also defend our own.
The resolution which we are debating today must be one more contribution to the ending of the situation of women in a country, Afghanistan, where the Taliban regime, through its authoritarianism, is causing terror throughout the population and international alarm.
The public execution of Zaarmeena, the obligation to wear the burka, the denial of the right to healthcare and education for women are but a few examples of the flagrant violations of human rights committed in that country.
Serious violations of women' s rights are committed every day, unpunished by a government which supports and encourages acts of repression and torture against them.
This Parliament, the European Parliament, has the moral obligation to express its solidarity with the Afghan women, to request that the UN intervene more actively, to ask the Member States to continue to refuse to recognise the Taliban regime until it respects human rights and puts an end to its discrimination against women.
The approval of this resolution may be a step - however small - in that direction.
Women currently make up 52% of the world population and, nevertheless, we are one of the groups which is most discriminated against and marginalised.
The case of the Afghan women illustrates the problem of the lack of respect for human rights which takes place every day in all corners of the planet and also in this Europe of ours.
We all know about the white slave trade, murders and abuse etc.. Perhaps there is little we can do from this House, but we have the duty to put pressure on the UN and the Member States.
I rise to speak about the women of Afghanistan.
At a time when Christmas is approaching, this offers one opportunity, among the multiplicity of human rights abuses globally, for Muslims and Christians to come together against the forces of evil.
For Islam and Christianity both uphold the rights of women, and the abuses of human rights against women that are taking place in Afghanistan, and have been taking place for so long now, are against the ethics of Islam.
No proper Muslim in the world will support the treatment of women that has been meted out by the bestial Afghan sadists and torturers.
It is an unbelievable situation but it is one in which we can join hands, bring forces to bear upon the Taliban society and free those poor women.
Why have we held back?
I am ashamed of this.
I call upon us all to intervene in Afghanistan with Islam, with Christians, with Jews, with the entirety of the world.
There can be no hanging back in the millennium: free these poor women now!
Mr President, we are living through an era full of contrasts and contradictions and while, in the European Union, women' s rights are fully recognised, in some countries they are even denied the right to be, the very right to exist.
While this morning a Member pointed out the fact that the three institutions of the European Union responsible for signing the budget were presided over by women and saw this as an illustration of what the third millennium may represent for the consolidation of equality of rights and opportunities for men and women, in Afghanistan we see how the Taliban regime not only denies women - millions of women - their most basic rights - such as rights to education, healthcare and a profession, not only does it commit violence against them for the mere fact of being women but, through the denial of these rights, it is also denying them the freedom to live their own lives, it is denying them their status as human beings.
The European Parliament, which is always sensitive to the cause of human rights, cannot remain inactive in the face of the greatest violation of these rights: the systematic discrimination and violence which women are today suffering in Afghanistan of which the public execution of Zaarmeena is just one tragic example.
Therefore, once again, we want to roundly condemn the Taliban regime.
We want to demand that the international community, in particular the United Nations, but also the European Union and its Member States, intervenes with all the means available to it, to put an end to the extreme discrimination suffered by Afghan women.
And, above all, we want to send evidence of our solidarity with the women of Afghanistan and communicate to them our commitment to continue working with them so that they may regain their full dignity as human beings.
Mr President, I echo the sentiments of the two previous speakers in wholeheartedly welcoming this motion unequivocally to condemn the appalling human rights record of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and in particular the persecution of Afghan women in the name of religion and culture.
Women have borne the brunt of tragedy in Afghanistan through years of war.
They have suffered a multitude of human rights abuses: rape, sexual assault, forced marriages and prostitution.
The intimidation of women has been used as a means of dishonouring and dehumanising entire communities.
Since the Taliban regime took over in 1996, the plight of Afghan women has continued.
A barbaric social code has been imposed, based on intimidation, humiliation and coercion of a female population that has been stripped of all its fundamental human rights.
For Afghan women freedom of expression, freedom of employment, freedom to attend health and family-planning courses, access to education, all those things as we know them simply do not exist.
Yet it was not until 15 October this year that the European Council took action on an air embargo and a freeze on funds to the Taliban.
That was not as a result of the apartheid-style policies of the regime vis-à-vis women, but as the result of the Taliban protection of Mr Bin Laden.
Nevertheless, I believe that this action should continue until the unacceptable discrimination against women in Afghanistan comes to an end.
The first speaker put it very well in saying that this resolution can play a part in that process.
It may be a small part, but we certainly have a responsibility as a Parliament to play some part in bringing this regime and its inhumane policies to an end.
Mr President, an extraordinary 21 year-old Afghan girl, who miraculously escaped from Taliban inhumanity and is now a refugee, together with hundreds of other women, told me when I was in Islamabad: "Now you are at the European Parliament, talk about us!
Here, take this, it is my burka.
Show it to them, show the world this symbol and the reality of our denied existence, our imprisonment, our violated, dead and stoned bodies."
This is why today, speaking in this Parliament, I will wear this burka just for a moment.
This is a gesture on behalf of all the women who have been killed, raped and denied their rights in Afghanistan and the world.
The rights of women in Afghanistan are continually being violated.
Women in Afghanistan and their cause need our solidarity and commitment.
So we are asking Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the United Nations not to recognise the Taliban regime and to promote an action plan on behalf of the NGOs working in Afghanistan for the fundamental rights of Afghan women and their economic and social emancipation, and on behalf of the NGOs which help female Afghan refugees.
However, there is something else we must do together: grant the right to asylum and aid to women who are forced to flee from Afghanistan.
(Applause)
Mr President, why has the situation of women in Afghanistan been raised in this debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance?
The answer is that, although discrimination against women has become a common problem in today' s world, the discrimination being experienced by women in Afghanistan is unique and without precedent. This is the explanation given by one of the courageous women who is standing up and telling the world about this abominable situation.
There is therefore no doubt about the urgency of this issue and this has been the case since 1996.
Terror and fanaticism have swept through Afghanistan since the arrival of the Taliban.
Women are their bête noire and the hatred which they have unleashed against them is expressed in inhuman violence.
All females, including young girls, are subject to a strict regime of segregation.
They have no freedom of speech, no access to healthcare and no right to work.
They are forced to cover themselves from head to toe which is like living in a walking prison.
They can be beaten in the street simply for not covering their faces and hair correctly.
In addition to physical cruelty, there is every evidence that almost all the women living in Afghanistan are subject to psychological pressures which are leading them to depression and suicide.
This situation can only get worse because girls are not allowed to be educated beyond the age of nine.
The direct consequences on all children are terrible for one child in five is dying before the age of five.
These conditions are even less acceptable given that, in the past, Afghan women participated in public life as students, professionals, officials or even parliamentarians.
This treatment, which is impossible for a human being to even conceive, is not a religious issue or a question of cultural tradition, as some would have us believe.
It is a barbaric system which forces women into a sub-human status.
We must react against this apartheid.
We must stop these fanatics who are greedy for power and secretly supported not only by the regime in Pakistan and its Koranic schools but also, unfortunately, by American services.
Several women' s organisations have been calling for some time for all the countries of the world to increase pressure on the Taliban.
The UN and the European Union have rightly made their aid conditional on respect for human rights.
As indicated in the motion for a resolution which, like Mrs Morgantini, I ask you to support en masse, I call on the Council not to recognise any regime in Afghanistan until sexual discrimination is eliminated. The Council must be more active and at least as active as it was with regard to Bin Laden.
NGOs are also present in part of the country.
We must help them and ensure that a proper action plan is implemented to support their work.
We must also help the Afghan women who are in Europe organising themselves. They must receive our support and help.
Prison conditions of political prisoners in Djibouti:
Mr President, Djibouti has a population of half a million comprising two Muslim tribes, the Issas and the Afars.
Djibouti's national assets are its port and its strategic position in the Horn of Africa.
Western powers, including France, exploit its strategic position.
Ethiopia uses its port.
Trapped in the conflict between the Afars and the Issas and the problems of the neighbouring countries, and with the desires and strategic policies of countries which dominate its strategic position, it is caught in a situation where it is desperately poor and, of course, undemocratic.
The leader of Djibouti today is doing things that we absolutely abhor.
The Afars' leader is in jail, without trial, with his supporters in abominable conditions.
He is going blind.
Such conditions exist in Djibouti today that we really have to look at our policy because it is part of Lomé, it receives aid from the EU and one of our Member States, France, is very strategically placed and has considerable influence in Djibouti.
This sort of dictatorship, this sort of terror of civilians and abuse of resources by unnecessary expenditure on arms for a country of that size is totally inexcusable.
It ought to be like the Singapore or Hong Kong of Africa.
It should really be a very prosperous place.
So I hope that you will all support this resolution condemning the abominable conditions of prisoners and civilians in Djibouti.
Mr President, we were all delighted yesterday when the Sakharov Prize was awarded to Mr Gusmão who was imprisoned by the authoritarian regime in Djakarta.
Through him, the Sakharov Prize honours the struggle of all those men and women throughout the world who are fighting for more justice, democracy and freedom.
This is why I am asking you to look closely at the attacks on human rights in Djibouti and specifically at the situation of the political prisoners.
This is particularly justified given that, as already stated, many Member States have very close relations with Djibouti.
Yesterday, several associations in France strongly protested when France again prepared to grant aid to this country.
You should know that for the last nine years the bulk of this country' s own budgetary resources has been devoted to financing the civil war.
Wages and pensions have not been paid for seven months.
Despite the previous resolutions of this House, reinforced by the International Federation of Human Rights League' s report confirming the precarious conditions of detention of the political prisoners, acts of violence, humiliation and attacks on the physical integrity of individuals are still standard practice in the prisons of Djibouti, particularly in Gabode Prison.
Here in May, forty-five hunger strikers were refused access to medical care and some died.
The families of prisoners are subject to constant pressure and threats. Women are raped and tortured.
The army and police are carrying out military operations in the districts of Tadjoura and Obock and are subjecting the population in the north of the country to a suicidal food blockade.
I would remind you that Djibouti is a signatory to the Lomé Convention which stipulates in Article 5 that aid for development is subject to respect for human rights.
Nowadays, aid should also very definitely be subject to respect for freedom of thought and expression, fair trials, access for detainees to basic medical care and the requirement to return refugees and displaced persons to their region of origin.
The Council and the Commission must make every effort to ensure that Djibouti respects the conventions which it has signed.
A peaceful political solution must be found as quickly as possible.
Finally, it is essential that our President forwards this motion for a resolution to the Council, the Commission and the ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
This century started with the Great War and ended with terrifying images of ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
I firmly hope that we will now be intransigent towards all these daily attacks on human rights, for it is these small acts of cowardice which lead to genocide.
Mr President, the human rights situation in Djibouti is giving us great cause for concern.
The political prisoners are being held in terrible conditions for they are either packed into cramped cells or kept in isolation.
Hygiene is totally lacking and they have no access to medical care.
A tuberculosis epidemic has broken out on several occasions and two prisoners have already died due to lack of care.
The political detainees have held hunger strikes to protest against the conditions of their detention and to demand access to medical care and their release in the absence of a fair trial.
We should remember that most of the prisoners are being held in preventative detention without having been brought before the courts. Among the prisoners who are ill is Mohamed Kadamiousouf.
He is the European representative of the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy. He was illegally extradited from Ethiopia in 1997 and, in the absence of medical care, risks losing his sight.
As respect for human rights constitutes an essential element of the cooperation and development between the European Union and the Republic of Djibouti, we demand, in accordance with these principles, the release of all political prisoners and access to medical care for all detainees. We particularly want emergency medical care to be given to Mohamed Kadamiousouf to prevent him losing his sight.
We also demand a guarantee of freedom of expression and political pluralism which are essential for any democracy and the end to repression against opponents of the regime. Finally, we ask the Commission to use all the means in its power to ensure respect for human rights in Djibouti.
Mr President, I am incensed by the conditions of detention of political prisoners in Djibouti. Yet I am just as incensed by the hypocrisy of the leaders of France who could, if they wanted, immediately end the authoritarianism and violence of the regime in Djibouti.
Everyone knows that this regime is being kept going, only with difficulty, by the French State.
Without financial help from Paris and without the presence of one of the main bases of the French army abroad, this regime would not last a month.
The leaders of France of all political persuasions may protest loudly in Paris about human rights, but in Africa and Asia they are supporting regimes which are trampling all over the most basic rights and freedoms.
Attacking the government of Djibouti alone will therefore at best conceal the responsibilities of the French Government and will at worst prop up a policy of support for an authoritarian and repressive regime.
We can join in the protests against the conditions of detention of prisoners in Djibouti only by clearly stating that, although the gaolers are in Djibouti, some of those who are really responsible have seats in the French Government.
Arrest of the President of the Court of Auditors in Nicaragua:
Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, the arrest of the President of the Court of Auditors in Nicaragua, Mr Agustín Jarquín, and the institutional changes which must be seen as undermining the Court of Auditors fill us with great concern.
We agree with the representatives of the Member States in the Council and, if I have understood correctly, Commissioner Verheugen, we are in agreement with the European Commission.
We have just learned that the ambassador of Nicaragua in Brussels has resigned because he no longer wishes to represent this government in Nicaragua following the incidents of the past week.
Mr Agustín Jarquín is an upstanding democrat and has carried out his work as President of the Court of Auditors in a highly efficient and impartial manner.
This view is shared not only by those of us who knew him personally, but also by his colleagues at other courts of auditors in Central America and the Caribbean who elected him as president of the OCCEFS.
Even the representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the Interamerican Development Bank supported his appointment.
Obviously his work was too efficient for the liking of some members of the present and previous Nicaraguan government.
The government has been systematically undermining the Court of Auditors over recent months. This undermining culminated in a pact concluded between the government and a previous governing party.
This pact resulted in the abolition of the office of President of the Court of Auditors and the installation of a party-politically dominated committee.
On 10 November this year, the former President of the Court of Auditors, Agustín Jarquín, was arrested on grounds which, in our view, do not, under any circumstances, constitute grounds for arrest.
The European Union and the European Parliament in particular cannot accept the systematic undermining of the Court of Auditors.
We in the European Parliament forced the European Commission to resign because it was unable to defend itself against accusations of the inefficient management of funds levied by the Court of Auditors and others in Europe.
Imagine what would happen if the President of the Court of Auditors or a prominent representative of an auditing authority were thrown into jail on such flimsy grounds!
I think the outcry would be enormous.
As far as are aware, there is no cause for concern at the moment about Mr Jarquín' s health, but we shall monitor the situation closely to ensure that he is treated properly. We are particularly worried at reports that his family, and his daughter in particular, have been physically attacked.
I would ask the Commission to monitor this very closely.
I would now like to address the President of Nicaragua, Dr Arnoldo Alemán, in Spanish.
Mr President of Nicaragua, we would like to help your people.
The Nicaraguan people, having suffered so many natural disasters, need help urgently, but European Union cooperation with the Government of Nicaragua is only possible if basic standards in terms of human rights and democracy are respected and if the administration of funds is safeguarded in accordance with the law.
To this end, a strong and independent Court of Auditors is required.
Mr President, if the welfare of your people concerns you, please stop systematically weakening the Court of Auditors and its members and reverse the decision to remove the post of General Auditor, the so-called "Pact" .
(DE) Thank you.
(Applause)
Mr President, human rights, freedom and the democratic functioning of a state are fundamental and unquestionable values.
Therefore, we do not accept any limitation of these values by criteria of national sovereignty or respect for geo-strategic balances.
The establishment of international criminal courts, the refusal to allow crimes against humanity to lapse and the refusal to submit human rights policies to a state' s commercial interests are principles and objectives that we consider to be fundamental.
The fact that the possibility of a judicial trial is being used for political objectives deserves our concern and justifies particular attention in terms of the situation in Nicaragua.
We feel, therefore, that the European Parliament must continue to follow this process and that if this suspicion is confirmed, by us or by reputable and credible human rights organisations, we will have to use the full weight of our force to end this situation.
Having said this, and in accordance with the principles for which we are fighting, we must be rigorous and cautious before casting doubts on what is a judicial decision by a sovereign state.
On the other hand, our interference would not be justified by the way in which the system of politicians supporting their own interests and holding incompatible political posts is put into practice in Nicaragua.
We cannot intervene on the basis of the popularity polls of the various Presidential candidates and in relation to the main electoral issues under discussion in a sovereign state on which Nicaragua' s voters will soon pass judgement and on which they, and only they, have the right to do so.
With regard to this, we would like to know what your reaction would be if we proposed a resolution requiring an ex-Prime Minister of a Member State to declare his income with regard to commissions received for arms deals, on the basis of opinion polls and bypassing the institutions of that country.
It would make more sense to pass this kind of resolution on a Member State of the European Union than on a third country, but even in that case, it would constitute an attack on the functioning of that state' s institutions and on the ability of its citizens to resolve the problem internally.
This is why we appeal to the EPP to postpone this vote until our next part-session and that if, in the meantime, the political nature of Mr Jarquín' s sentence is confirmed, we shall act properly.
Mr President, the liberal group had severe doubts as to whether or not to declare this resolution urgent.
Indeed, the issues concerning the treatment of the President of the Nicaraguan Audit Office, Agustín Jarquín, by the Nicaraguan government have been around for over a year.
It is, of course, a very serious matter which deserves in-depth discussion, but as far as we are concerned, we would prefer it if this was dealt with by the competent committee and not in this hasty manner.
It is a political issue.
Indeed, one cannot help wondering whether there was a political motive behind the Audit Office' s accusation that the democratically elected government is corrupt?
Quite possibly.
After all, Agustín Jarquín, now under arrest, is a possible candidate for the presidency.
There is also another question.
Does this corruption inferred by Jarquín actually exist within the Nicaraguan government?
That too is possible because many say that Jarquín is unimpeachable.
It is not up to us to make a party-political choice in Nicaragua.
Mr President, the matter is now in the right hands, namely the courts in Nicaragua, and should therefore not be dealt with by this Parliament.
Mr President, as a member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and as a Member of the Basque Parliament, I must point out firstly that the European Union communicated to the Government of Nicaragua, by diplomatic means, on 18 November, the need for a rapid solution to the issue we are dealing with today and to remove the obstacles suffered by the Republic of Nicaragua' s Court of Auditors and to tell them, very categorically, that if there is no transparency, they may lose European Union funds.
We can clearly question the means which Mr Jarquín has used to an absolutely legal end, that is, investigating the rampant corruption in Nicaragua, a corruption which extends to the very highest authorities and which, for example, has multiplied the assets of the President of the Republic by a thousand.
What is absolutely obvious to any impartial observer, however, is that, in this case, the intention has been precisely to prevent the investigation of corruption with the collaboration, furthermore, of the Sandinistas, and to get rid of the person who was going to be leader of the opposition in the Republic of Nicaragua.
I hope that the European Union will intervene in this matter. That is what is required.
Mr President, this debate on human rights highlights yet again the need for us in the European Union to remain vigilant on this issue.
All the individual cases discussed here this afternoon point to fundamental human rights violations.
In the case of the death penalty in the USA and Yemen, the issue is the basic right to life.
In the case of discrimination against women in Kuwait and Afghanistan, it is the right to civil equality.
In the case of Djibouti, it is the right to freedom of opinion and freedom of political activity.
In the case of Nicaragua - and here I differ with some speakers here today - it is clearly about the rule of law as such and the fact that people must be protected under the rule of law from arbitrary acts by the supreme state powers.
Given the time available, I should just like to make a few comments on these individual issues from the Commission' s point of view.
As far as the death penalty is concerned, we all agree that it is incompatible with our European standards and must be vehemently condemned.
The carrying out of a death sentence is an inhumane act which has no place in a civilised society.
So we know how we must react when death sentences are imposed or executed in individual countries.
We must then examine what we can do in each individual case to prevent the death sentence from actually being imposed or executed.
That applies to the cases referred to here.
The European Union has set itself clear rules on how to proceed when not even minimum standards are respected.
In such cases, the European Union must intervene.
I would like to mention two of these minimum standards, namely when the death penalty is imposed against people who were not even 18 years old at the time of the offence, and when the death penalty is imposed on people who are mentally handicapped.
Allow me to say briefly on the question of women in Kuwait that, like the Members of the European Parliament, the Commission is very disappointed at the result of the vote in Kuwait on 30 November.
Nonetheless, we can say, and this point was raised here that, with a directly elected Parliament, Kuwait is still one of the most democratic countries in the Gulf.
That does not alter the fact that this vote contradicts the UN convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination and the international pact on civil and political rights.
Both pacts have been signed by Kuwait.
The Commission is very worried that Kuwait is not complying with this internationally ratified convention.
We must say that this development is particularly alarming in the light of the fact that it was the Emir of Kuwait, the head of state, who took the courageous decision, which the EU also welcomed, to grant women active and passive voting rights.
This is an unusual case in which an authoritarian head of state is more progressive that the elected representatives of the people.
The European Union will do its best to help achieve a breakthrough on this issue in Kuwait.
As far as Afghanistan is concerned, the position has been clear for a long time.
The European Union set out its point of view on Afghanistan in a common position on 25 January 1999 in which it said quite unequivocally and clearly that we demanded respect for human rights in Afghanistan and that, in particular, we defended the rights of Afghan women.
This common position was shared by all the political groups in Afghanistan.
The European Union has consistently repeated its rejection of the gender policy of the Taliban movement.
We really must say that the most regrettable aspect of the Taliban regime is the way in which women are treated.
Not only is the entire female population denied access to education, but women are not allowed to take up independent work.
In all the contacts which we have been able to make with the Taliban - and as you know, they have been quite limited - we have never left them in any doubt as to the fact that we condemn this behaviour and shall continue to do so in the future.
The Commission is following the human rights situation in Djibouti very closely and with great concern.
We have noted that the fundamental freedoms of those opposing the present regime in Djibouti are being violated time and time again.
The Commission will do its utmost to ensure that the Djibouti authorities respect the fundamental rights of prisoners.
We have expressed our point of view with regard to respect for the fundamental freedoms of man in contacts with the authorities in Djibouti time and again.
Respect for human rights is one of the fundamental facets of our cooperation with Djibouti within the framework of the Lomé Convention.
The Djibouti government must know that there will be consequences if, as a participant in the Lomé Convention, it fails to respect human rights.
Cooperation between the European Union and Djibouti cannot remain divorced from this.
We shall therefore support any initiatives designed to encourage the Djibouti government to take a stance in line with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
My final point concerns Nicaragua.
The Commission has followed the events leading up to the arrest of the comptroller-general of Nicaragua, Mr Jarquín, with mounting concern and we endorsed the initiative taken by the Troika of the European Union on this issue on 18 November.
I should like to say quite clearly with reference to the discussion held here, the political background to which I do, of course, fully understand, that even if the actions of the comptroller-general were politically motivated, that was no excuse to put him in prison.
I think we are all in agreement on that.
Our concern is that a political argument, irrespective of whether or not it was justified, and I do not want to go into that here, has been countered by the supreme power in the country by throwing the head comptroller of the country into prison.
In the Commission' s view, the European Parliament should not remain silent on this.
I should like to point out that the European Union has been a donor of non-repayable aid to Central America in general, and Nicaragua in particular, for many years.
Following the new form of cooperation between the EU and central America decided at the San José Conference in Florence in 1996, and the strategy paper for cooperation between the EU and Nicaragua adopted in 1999, I must point out that the European Union in particular has been concentrating mainly in development cooperation with Nicaragua on strengthening the rule of law and supporting a fair social policy.
If this cooperation is to be able to have full effect and the objectives are to be attained, we must agree to abide by democratic rules of play and common values and this necessarily includes respect for independent institutions, as provided for in the constitution.
The Commission is confident that the Nicaraguan authorities will take account of the considerations voiced by the European Union and other members of the international community and that the measures taken against the Bureau of the Comptroller-General and the comptroller himself will be reversed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
That concludes the debate on human rights.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
International criminal court
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
B5-0337/1999 by Mr Wuori and others, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty on the statute to establish the permanent international criminal court;
B5-0344/1999 by Mr Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court;
B5-0349/1999 by Mr Malmström and others, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court;
B5-0373/1999 by Mr Oostlander and Mrs Grossetête, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court;
B5-0381/1999 by Mr Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court;
B5-0386/99 by Messrs Puerta and Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the ratification of the Rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court.
Mr President, it was an historic event when, in July 1998 at a conference in Rome, it was possible to adopt the treaty to establish the international criminal court.
It was a treaty which would make it possible for an independent court to judge people who had committed war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.
Unfortunately, we know that there is a great need for such a criminal court.
Ninety States signed the Rome treaty, but so far only six countries have ratified it.
That is precisely the problem.
If we are to progress further and if the Court is really to be able to begin its work, then at least sixty countries must ratify the treaty and hand this over to the UN.
We must all work towards the goal of obtaining a functioning court within a few years.
My group urges the Council and the Commission to do their utmost, politically and diplomatically, to bring this about.
At the same time, one ought not to forget the applicant countries which I believe require a lot of support if they are to be able to be involved in this.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution is, furthermore, a very important paragraph indeed when it says that the developing countries must be given economic aid if it is to be possible for them to be involved in the process of establishing a criminal court.
Mr President, genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of aggression involving actions against third countries are the four types of crime which could be tried in the international criminal court.
The four Geneva Conventions of 1949 for the protection of victims of armed conflicts already oblige States to pursue and try the perpetrators of such crimes.
The plan for an international criminal court is another step forward in the creation of an international humanitarian legal system.
I am reminded here that the preparation period for the statute of the international criminal court was long and tense.
I had the honour of participating in that process on behalf of the world parliamentary community in my capacity as the then President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
I can therefore bear witness to the fact that, in that very complicated negotiation, many concessions had to be made in order to draw up a text which, although falling short of our initial aspirations, achieved the necessary consensus and was finally able to come into play as an acceptably effective instrument.
It would be irresponsible today not to publicly recognise our disappointment at the fact that, a year and a half later, only 91 States have signed it and just five or six have ratified it when - as Mrs Schörling has said - 60 ratifications are necessary for the court to come into effect.
Therefore, by means of the resolution we are about to approve, the European Parliament is coherently maintaining the support which it always expressed for this initiative.
However, to sum up, what we are going to do here in these final debates of the year and the century is to publicly and formally recognise that this issue is still outstanding, and that we also have the commitment to persevere with our efforts to fulfil the objective which we set on approving the court' s statute, also urging the Council and the Commission to act to this end.
In all these actions, we Socialists are guided by the awareness that, in a world which is being globalised, it is essential that the Rule of Law is globalised as well and this is what we should work towards.
Mr President, in many contexts the EU is de facto sitting upon quite a lot of countries' ratifications.
I am especially pleased that Commissioner Verheugen is here today and hope that he can use his influence to ensure that we have the applicant countries, as well as other countries which want to cooperate, alongside us on this issue and that we obtain a significant number of ratifications.
It is also a shame that we are forced to note that only six Member States have signed this treaty.
If, however, we involve more Member States, applicant countries and cooperating States in this work, then we shall make some progress along the road. The destination is certainly a compromise, but we have to start somewhere.
Secondly, I hope that we can work for those resources which are needed if the treaty is to be able to function.
This, I believe, will be an important priority for us in this Chamber in the future. I also hope that, in the future too, Members of the European Parliament will have the opportunity to be involved in working parties, as we were at an earlier stage.
Mr President, this is about the reconciliation of nations.
It is also a legal instrument to guarantee this reconciliation.
We know that reconciliation is only possible if justice is done.
This insight helps form the basis for the international tribunal for ex-Yugoslavia: do justice, not as a victor but from a supra-national viewpoint and with a view to living together in future.
Our group, therefore, warmly welcomes the fact that an international court has now been set up with a more universal authority which complements national courts where they fall short.
Member States and candidate countries of the European Union should, of course, lead the way.
This includes the thirteenth candidate country, Mr President, Turkey.
One can hardly suppress a smile if one talks about Turkey in this context.
I hope that the Commission and Council succeed in exerting pressure on other countries in order to achieve ratification of the EC Treaty.
Financial support is needed to enable poor countries to take part in these court activities.
This will play an important preventative role, irrespective of political considerations of an amoral nature and immune to political blackmail.
Big criminals can no longer expect that their crimes will go unpunished.
The Milosevices, the Karadices, the Mladices of this world, they will know.
The international criminal court constitutes a breakthrough in politics.
It confirms that politics is not a question of power where legislation serves to cover our embarrassment, but quite the opposite, that the central role of politics is to create legislation where power is of benefit.
Mr President, this Parliament will need to be acutely aware of this, also with regard to the most recent debate on Nicaragua.
It is downright scandalous if matters which are totally unacceptable in terms of human rights are covered up out of party-political considerations.
Mr President, I hope that this Parliament and the groups which, based on their own convictions, can muster a better position, will take a clearer stance in this respect.
Mr President, I believe that this criminal court is of tremendous importance and I should like to say to Mrs Thors that the Member States of the European Union should do their own homework before asking others to do it for us.
That does not mean that others should not do theirs, it means that we must ensure as a matter of urgency that this criminal court is up and running soon.
There are two reasons for this.
The first reason is prevention.
I was at a conference held by our group a few days ago in Banja Luka.
There was much to see that was encouraging, such as the Serbian opposition, which has got off to an auspicious start.
However, I also met a man who sat trembling with fear as he related all the crimes which he had committed in this period in the Republic of Srpska.
I found the conversation extremely interesting because it more or less proved that, if he had known that he might appear before an international criminal court, he might perhaps have behaved differently.


I think that this preventative aspect is tremendously important, not on account of the criminals at the top, those who possess criminal energy which transcends everything, but on account of the criminals at second or third remove who must know that, in the end, they cannot escape punishment for their crimes, even if they considered themselves as temporary vicarious agents of very powerful figures.
That is why this criminal court is important for prevention, but it is also essential for another reason.
Right is right and wrong is wrong, irrespective of who has committed it, and the problem facing specific criminal courts is that they are always a little on the lookout for triumphant justice.
It is therefore extremely important for there to be a uniform criminal law against genocide and crimes against humanity throughout the world and for there to be uniform sentences and a common criminal court throughout the world, where everyone knows that wrong is always wrong and must be prosecuted, irrespective of the charge, irrespective of the ideology and irrespective of the nationality under which they appear in court. Injustice is still injustice and injustice must not go unpunished.
This will avoid a situation in which the one-eyed is king and will help the concept of the law on which the European Union is founded to take hold throughout the world.
That is why action on this criminal court is one of the most important tasks facing the European Union in the immediate future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission unreservedly supports the purpose of the motion being discussed here and considers the European Parliament' s initiative to be beneficial and useful because we too take the view that further important steps are needed if the international criminal court is ever to get off the ground.
The Commission welcomes the fact that more and more contracting parties are signing the statute decided in Rome and that some at least have already ratified it.
However, to be fair, we should point out that, in numerous cases the constitutions of some signatory States, including some Member States, prohibit the extradition of their own citizens and constitutional amendments are therefore needed before this agreement can be ratified. This applies, for example, to Germany and that is the reason for the delay.
I am more than willing, Mrs Thors, to bring applicant countries' attention to the need for them to sign and ratify this agreement, but I think that Mr Posselt was right when he said that my position on this matter would be more credible if all 15 had already ratified it.
Ratification and proper transposition of the Rome statute into national law is an important task.
The EU is aware of the complex issues which surround it.
I have already referred to the constitutional problems and we are prepared to share our experience with ratification procedures and the relevant know-how with interested states.
The Member States of the EU have already offered the other States financial and technical assistance in ratifying the statute and they stand by that offer.
The Member States of the Union and the European Commission have also taken, or are supporting, a series of other initiatives to promote the statute.
We also appreciate the important contribution made in this area by non-governmental organisations, who are devoting themselves to raising awareness of the Rome statute and its imminent ratification.
The Member States of the European Union and the European Commission have proven their commitment to furthering international criminal justice by working closely with the war crimes tribunals for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia and supporting them strongly.
We are stepping up our willingness to examine how we can contribute to the future work of the international criminal court through cooperation, aid and support in all areas.
The Commission shares the view put forward in the debate here that this criminal court will not, under any circumstances, have a purely symbolic significance but that it can have a direct, preventative effect and will help to ensure that perhaps the most horrific crimes will no longer be committed in the future.
Thank you for that statement, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Íatural disasters
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
France - B5-0334/1999 by Mr Piétrasanta, on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group, on the floods in the south of France on 12 and 13 November 1999;
B5-0338/1999 by Mr Pasqua and others, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the disastrous floods in the south of France;
B5-0345/1999 by Mrs Berès, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the floods in November 1999 in the south of France;
B5-0374/1999 by Mrs De Veyrac, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, on the floods in the south-west of France;
B5-0387/1999 by Mrs Ainardi, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the serious floods in the south-west of France.
Denmark, Germany, UK and Sweden- B5-0376/1999 by Mr Rovsing and others, on behalf of the PPE/DE Group, on the hurricane disaster in Denmark, Germany, UK and Sweden.
Vietnam- B5-0336/1999 by Mrs McKenna, on behalf of the Greens /ALE Group, on the floods in Vietnam.
Mr President, I want to speak about the natural disasters which hit the south of France in the night of 12 to 13 November 1999. These were totally exceptional in their violence and the extent of the damage caused and have led to 35 deaths and FRF three to four billion worth of damage.
I know that the EU budget does not provide for any credit line for natural disasters occurring in the territory of the Union.
It has also not escaped me that it was this House which wanted to delete this credit line.
However, I must ask you to intervene and ensure that the European Union does something, because it can in two ways.
Firstly, it can authorise France to reallocate the outstanding balance of the Structural Funds not committed from the 1994-1999 programming period.
Much of the funding still remains with 54% of credits not committed under Leader, 38% under Interreg, 49% under URBAN and 88% under RETEX.
In order to quickly intervene, the Commission simply needs today to authorise France to redeploy part of these credits.
Secondly, it can help by ensuring that, for the new programme of Structural Funds for 2000-2006, the zoning for reconstruction is properly in place and the most affected zones are included under Objective 2.
Finally, is it not ironic that our Union can act totally legitimately in countries outside the EU but that it does not have the means or the ability to act within the EU?
At a time when everyone, particularly Mrs Fontaine, is making rapprochement between the people of Europe and the European Union the key issue for this Parliament, I feel it is important for the EU to be able to act in a positive manner when our people are in difficulty.
Mr President, if we want the people of Europe to feel an attachment to the European Union, then the EU must show solidarity with its people when they are struck by misfortune, as in the south of France.
In the night of 12 to 13 November, this region experienced rain and floods which have caused deaths and devastated the daily life, economy and agriculture of the region.
As soon as these events occurred, I wanted this House to show its solidarity with the victims by tabling a motion for a resolution on urgent subjects on 15 November.
As the Rules of Procedure unnecessarily delayed this, I have joined my motion to those tabled in this sitting on the same subject by other groups.
I hope that this motion gains a firm following. I ask the Commission to examine the measures which could assist the people of Tarn, Aude, Pyrénées-Orientales and Hérault.
In particular, the EU aid allocation zoning should take account of this situation.
In the future I will, of course, vote for motions for resolutions on urgent subjects tabled by my fellow Members when similar events occur.
Obviously, I hope that these are few and far between but, in each case, it seems essential that we, as the elected representatives of the people of Europe, should show our solidarity and our humanity.
Mr President, I think there should be proportion in everything.
Natural disasters are occurring around the world.
There have been a large number of these in recent years.
Thousands of people have been killed and been made homeless as a result of hurricanes, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. It is these that are natural disasters!
It is only right that the EU should try to help in these different contexts.
I happened to be in southern Sweden in the course of the twenty-four hours we are talking about here.
It is true that the wind was blowing. It was even stormy.
It sometimes is in southern Sweden.
This is not something the European Parliament can do anything about.
Individual people were affected and there was serious damage to the countryside, but there was no natural disaster.
This is a question for Sweden and Swedish insurance companies and not something the European Parliament should be devoting time to.
Mr President, I want to speak along similar lines to Mrs De Veyrac. The catastrophic floods which have occurred in the south of France have levied a very heavy toll with 39 deaths and widespread chaos in the region.
In the four départements affected by the floods of 12 and 13 November, namely Aude, Hérault, Pyrénées-Orientales and Tarn, the bill will be in excess of EUR 0.7 billion and compensation to individuals will amount to EUR 0.5 billion.
The damage to public services is estimated at over FRF 1 billion because of the extensive damage to roads and railways, power and telephone lines, buildings and public facilities.
All sectors have been affected, with over 200 craftsmen having been caught in the disaster, 260 businesses having suffered serious damage and 1,518 employees having been affected.
I would draw Parliament' s attention to the fact that this is indeed a natural disaster for these floods and this rain were twenty times greater than normal.
This is not therefore the result, as we would sometimes like to believe, of carelessness in local development.
This is truly a natural disaster.
This is why I would urge Parliament to act in this region.
I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the situation of the people in Vietnam as a result of the floods.
The International Federation of the Red Cross has said that hundreds of thousands of people in Vietnam are likely to be short of food over the next nine months.
It has also been reported that there have been violent protests by peasant farmers in the Thai Binh province.
This seems to be very much in relation to the fact that the Vietnamese are trying to modernise and the modernisation costs are being basically borne by the peasant farmers.
This situation has to be tackled because taxes on the peasants have increased dramatically over recent times because of the need to modernise.
The farmers themselves are in a very, very critical situation, where they are extremely short of food and the excess taxes on them makes the situation even more catastrophic.
We should listen to the appeals from the International Federation of the Red Cross and pay attention to the plight of these people who have, in the past, been decimated by such things as the Agent Orange used by the US. Now natural disasters are causing even greater problems for them.
Mr President, Commissioner, I, of course, support the joint motion for a resolution tabled by my fellow Members. I must, however, return your attention to the floods which have occurred in my region, the South of France.
This is clearly a natural disaster which has caused nearly 40 deaths and whose consequences are continuing to severely test some of our citizens today.
One month after the event, the drop in the water level has revealed a scene of desolation and confirmed the extent of the disaster. This, together with the loss of human life, means that prevention efforts must be reconsidered.
In terms of private and public property such as buildings and heavy infrastructure and in terms of the economy, the requirements are enormous and are in the order, as has been mentioned, of FRF 6 billion.
Faced with such an urgent demand, the State, local authorities and community groups are mobilising throughout France.
For example, FRF 42 million in aid has been approved by the Departmental Council of Pyrénées-Orientales, FRF 50 million by the Languedoc-Roussillon region and FRF 400 000 by the Senate. Finally, the French Government has announced aid of FRF 1.2 billion.
You are no doubt aware of the proposals made by Commissioner Barnier in terms of structural policy.
These will help to ensure long-term risk prevention, but I must again ask the Commission to demonstrate its propensity for solidarity on an urgent subject.
This House, too, must demonstrate its legitimacy to the people of Europe, which is a principle we all, including the President, very much support.
Finally, I wish to draw your attention to the pollution which is once again threatening the coast of Brittany and which will also require an additional financial effort to be made by the European institutions through the urgent procedure.
Mr President, Mr Michel Barnier explained here on 16 November that the Commission is following the problems caused by the floods in four départements in southern France very closely, that it deeply regrets the loss of life and that it will do its utmost, as and where it has the authority and means to do so, to ensure that the damaged areas obtain suitable support.
Solidarity will certainly not be lacking.
Nonetheless, we must be allowed and we must be able to exercise it.
The motions for resolutions call on the Commission to intervene in various forms in order to repair the tremendous material damage.
This is also in keeping with the wishes recently expressed by the responsible politicians in the region to both President Prodi and Michel Barnier.
I have to tell you that it will not be possible to provide extraordinary emergency help for families in the damaged regions.
That does not require any special justification here in Parliament, given that no-one except Parliament need defend its budget rights.
As you know, there has been no specific budget line in the budget of the European Community to pay for natural disasters in countries of the Union for years now.
I do not think, given the protection of Parliament' s rights, that we can simply act as if this situation did not exist.
The motions to support farmers in the form of disaster aid can, however, be examined within the framework of Article 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1257/99 of 17 May 1999 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund.
On the other hand, the deployment of resources left over in the Structural Funds from the programme planning period 1994 to 1999 is hardly worth considering as the available funds have already been allocated to specific measures, in this case in close collaboration with the relevant French authorities.
We have already re-programmed at the request of the relevant French authorities.
In the view of the relevant Commission services and French agencies, this will account for all the Community funds provided.
For the new programming phase from January 2000, the damaged areas in the four départements in question, which currently qualify for support as Objective II or Objective V areas for the period from 1994 to 1999 or which belong to the new Objective II areas, could obtain money from the Structural Funds.
As a result, the Commission can grant financial aid to restore infrastructures and equipment which qualifies for support as well as aid to agricultural structures within the framework of the forthcoming programme planning for the period from 2000 to 2006, which is shortly to be discussed with the French authorities.
Account must be taken in this respect of the fact that aid to build or restore housing will not qualify for intervention by the Structural Funds.
It should also be borne in mind that the provisions of the regulation require an ex ante environmental impact study for all forms of intervention by the Structural Funds.
Here again, Parliament, with its particular emphasis on the environmental aspect, would certainly not understand if we were to waive this.
Allow me to say a few more words about the problem of the risk area.
Once the French authorities have finalised estimates of the damage, the Commission will be able to provide specific support to protect against natural dangers within the framework of the new programme planning for 2000 to 2006 in the form of cofinancing for investments.
That applies in particular to soil protection, the regulation of watercourses and the local water systems.
Allow me to conclude with a brief word on Vietnam because I think that there is definitely a difference when a leading industrial country or one of the poorest developing countries in the world is hit by a natural disaster.
The European Commission is well aware of the dramatic situation in which the victims of the floods in Vietnam find themselves.
They have been the worst for forty years.
The European Union has provided emergency aid.
ECHO is currently analysing the situation in the areas affected in order to assess the extent of additional damage and the requirements of the provinces affected.
Then we will answer the question of whether European aid for Vietnam should be increased.
The European Union is working with all the international organisations dealing with the situation in Vietnam in a spirit of cooperation and trust.
We are trying here to coordinate disaster aid as sensibly as possible.
Mr President, I do not want to prolong this sitting.
However, I must say to the group of very welcome visitors who have just arrived that it is not through any spite on our part that we are suspending the sitting for a quarter of an hour just when they have arrived.
That concludes the joint debate.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
(The sitting was suspended at 5.10 p.m., and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
Mr President, may I request, if the Members agree, that we vote en bloc on all the proposed amendments to the resolution on Nicaragua, given that they all go in the same direction.
I should like to say two words about why this is not a joint resolution and why the PPE has tabled proposed amendments to its own resolution.
The reason is that we held a meeting on Tuesday with a view to finding a joint resolution and the other groups, especially the Liberals and the Social Democrats, warned us that they would be unable to support certain clauses in the resolution.
So we said, let us take the controversial points out and just leave the essentials in.
We therefore only have things in it which are unanimously supported by Parliament.
Commissioner Verheugen also clearly stated that Parliament should express a view on this matter.
As the Liberals and Social Democrats were still unable to sign the joint resolution which we negotiated, we said we will table proposed amendments which water down our own resolution somewhat, in order to give Members the possibility in the end of voting in favour.
Thank you, Mr Liese.
Are there any objections to the suggestion that we make this an en bloc vote?
Mr President, I am sorry, but our group objects to an en bloc vote.
I acknowledge your objection and we shall vote on one amendment at a time.
After the vote on the motions for resolutions on the international criminal court:
Mr President, I merely want to say that we Liberals do not want to participate in these votes concerning natural disasters because we think that they do not belong in this Parliament. We also believed that we had reached an understanding that we should no longer discuss resolutions of this type.
I have acknowledged that Mr Haarder.
I would ask you to discuss that in the meeting of political group chairmen, which is where it belongs.
After the vote on the motions for resolutions on the natural disasters in France:
Mr President, I did ask for the floor before we proceeded to the vote. I wanted to say that our group tabled a specific motion for a resolution on the natural disasters in France and that we are naturally co-signatories of the joint motion.
You did not mention this.
I would be grateful if the corresponding correction could be made.
Thank you, the correction will be made.
I apologise, as I did not see you. It was an oversight.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
Are there any comments?
Mr President, yesterday, at the end of the vote on the budget, there was a moment when the three institutions concerned were represented by women and the President concluded by saying that the Millennium was ending on a high note.
I just wanted to mention that, as the authoritative Greenwich Observatory has also pointed out, the Millennium will end on 31 December 2000.
Mr Speroni, I am aware that, from a rational and Cartesian point of view, you are absolutely right.
Scientifically you are right.
However, according to popular belief, the Millennium ends in 14 days.
Therefore, your comments will appear in the Minutes, but I believe that everybody will hold celebrations, at least, on 31 December of this year and then, possibly, a second time.
I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that the President would have liked to have been with you today but, unfortunately, as you know, she is not very well at the moment and therefore, on her behalf, on behalf of the Bureau and on my own behalf, I would like to wish you all the best for this Christmas, this new year and, I was going to say, this new Millennium.
In any case, personally, I was convinced that I was going to be the last President of the Millennium.
In any event, on behalf of the Bureau, Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and, on this one occasion, allow me to wish you, in my own Catalan language: 'Bon Nadal i feliç Any Nou' .
(Applause) (The Minutes were approved)
International Fund for Ireland
Mr De Rossa has requested the floor for a procedural motion.
De Rossa (PSE).
Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to raise the question as to whether or not the amendments which have been tabled in relation to this proposal are in order.
This is a proposal without debate and we will not have any opportunity therefore to debate the amendments being put forward.
I happen to oppose the amendments but it seems to be that we have been put in an invidious position, asking us to vote on amendments which we have not had an opportunity to debate.
Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to inform the House that the amendments are in order.
They are in line with the procedure. It is true that it would have been much better had we had an opportunity to debate this in committee and, as was said at the beginning of the week, that would have been a much better opportunity to have the issue debated.
Unfortunately, the decision was taken that this would be put without debate and the amendments are in order.
They are extremely important.
Mr President, like Mr De Rossa I also question the fact of the amendments being in order.
The sensitivities of Northern Ireland are too important for any ill-informed bandwagoning on the International Fund for Ireland.
I would ask you to consider very carefully how we proceed here, particularly as we are not in a position to have a debate.
I share this concern with my colleagues, Mr De Rossa and Mr McCartin.
Raytheon has been welcomed to Derry by no less than Nobel Peace Prize winners, John Hume - one of our own colleagues, and David Trimble.
Raytheon will be funded by the Industrial Development Board in Northern Ireland.
Not one euro nor one Irish pound from the International Fund for Ireland is going to Raytheon.
The amendments are totally inappropriate.
Ladies and gentlemen, Messrs Cashman and Simpson have also requested the floor, but I would be grateful if we could concentrate on the task in hand.
The truth, and this may remove the need for the Members' procedural motions, is that it was Parliament that decided on Tuesday not to hold the debate.
Therefore, this President, although he might like to reverse this decision, is not going to do so.
This is clear.
This is the decision of Parliament, and furthermore, incidentally, Mrs Doyle, I was rapporteur when this fund was approved for the first time and there was a long debate at the time about its creation.
Therefore, I am sorry to say that we cannot make changes now.
Mr Simpson has the floor.
Mr President, it is not my intention to delay the House any longer than we have to.
I do not want to get into the argument about the amendments because that can be sorted out by a vote.
One point should be made, however; the process is not ideal. Mrs Doyle and other Members are right but the problem we are faced with in the Regional and Transport Committee, which is the committee responsible, is that at the very last minute we were asked for urgency by the Council because somebody, somewhere, realised that we needed a resolution from this House to carry on the particular fund in question.
Therefore, the only way we could do that was by this very quick procedure, through the committee on Tuesday, by a letter from the President.
We thought we had an understanding that there would not be any amendments.
Sadly, that has not been the case.
It is only fair to point out that given the time we had to do this, the committee and the Parliament have worked as effectively and as quickly as we possibly can in what proved to be difficult circumstances so that the money could be released next year for this very important fund.
Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
Before the plenary session, both the services and the Presidency examined the comments on the admissibility or otherwise of the amendments.
Political evaluation is one thing but the technical possibility of admitting amendments is another thing altogether.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they are perfectly permissible.
Therefore, we shall now proceed to the vote on the proposed regulation.
(Parliament approved the Commission' s proposal) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
- The amendments are inadmissible on the following grounds: the objectives of the Fund do not include promoting large-scale inward investment.
The Fund exists to promote urban and rural development, community development, to enhance skills and to improve the environment; the justifications cited in the Green amendments are spurious.
The Fund has no role in the Raytheon project, nor could it have.
The amendments simply seek to prevent the Fund from doing something which it could not do anyway; the purpose of the proposed Regulation is to permit the continuation of the financial contribution of the EU to the Fund; it does not in any way seek to amend the substance of the existing Regulation EC 2614/97, which is why the urgency procedure was agreed in the first place.
On the matters of substance, the projects referred to in the Green justification are not military projects.
- The vote on the fund which was tabled late by the Council was facilitated by the EP without debate, on the understanding from all groups including the Greens that there would be no amendments.
It would seem that at the instigation of Ms Patricia McKenna, the Greens broke this understanding.
As a consequence of this I was being asked to vote on amendments which I had not had the opportunity to consult about or research and on which I would be precluded from debating on the floor of the House.
The company criticised in the amendments (Raytheon) was in fact welcomed by two Nobel Peace Prize winners (Hume/Trimble).
In addition, if we are to shut down or refuse investment from every company which may have an association with the arms industry, then we would have to close virtually every American and Japanese software company on the island of Ireland with catastrophic consequences.
I am opposed to the arms industry but we must not put at risk the economic prosperity of Northern Ireland with ill-conceived and badly researched amendments in the European Parliament.
- The EUR 45 million to the IFI is most welcome, and a continuing recognition of the European Union's support for the cross-border communities in Ireland.
Any attempt to sully the reputation of the IFI is totally unacceptable and amounts to ill-informed political bandwagoning on the sensitivities of Northern Ireland and are not worthy of this Parliament.
For the record, Raytheon, a high-tech software plant to which the amendments are directed, is to be funded by the IDB, the Industrial Development Board in Northern Ireland, not the IFI.
Community agricultural statistics
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0089/1999) by Mrs Redondo Jiménez, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision amending Decision 96/411/EC on improving Community agricultural statistics [COM(1999) 332 - C5­0042/1999 - 1999/0137(COD)].
Mr President, the Commission proposes extending Decision 96/411 until 2002, removing certain articles in order to simplify its implementation and bringing forward the payment of 30% of the Community contribution to the Member States, and to do all of this in accordance with the codecision procedure.
In 1997 an amendment to this Decision was presented which extended by two years the deadline for Member States to send their reports and the deadline for the Commission to draw up a progress report for Parliament and for the Council.
Given the importance of the common agricultural policy, the availability to everybody of reliable information for the purposes of decision making is essential.
Therefore, it must be a priority for the institutions to provide the means for this information to be ever more complete, reliable and quick, and therefore agricultural statistics must be ever more flexible, harmonious and coherent with other statistical fields with the possibility of incorporating new sources.
To this end, we have to identify, firstly, the areas in which it is possible to implement rationalisation measures, secondly, areas where there are new and increasing needs, and thirdly, general principles in accordance with which actions are carried out.
Having said this, it should not be necessary to point out that all the Member States should act in accordance with these intentions.
However, this is not the case: this is a voluntary programme for the Member States.
I would like to stress that it is not at all easy for this Parliament to understand that any Member State might say "I am not interested, I am not taking part" .
The common agricultural policy belongs to all the Member States. It affects all of us.
Therefore, I would like both the Commission and the Council to reconsider the matter and for the next proposal submitted to this Parliament to establish the obligatory nature of its application in all Member States, with a single legal basis in the statistical field.
There is another aspect which I would like to point out to the Commission and the Council with regard to amendment 5, which I hope will be taken into account, given that the information requested in it, according to Regulation (EC) 1390/99, which entered into force on 23 November 1999, establishes in article 2 that "each Member State will provide the Commission with all the information classified by budgetary items which will be forwarded at the request of the Commission within 30 days" .
Therefore, I request a specific commitment by the Commission that it will define each year, amongst the priority plans for technical action proposed to it by the Standing Committee on Agricultural Statistics, the things requested in our Amendments Nos 4 and 5, since otherwise, the codecision procedure would be delayed and it would become more difficult for the Member States to draw up their statistical reports.
Therefore, I would like to hear the Commission' s opinion with regard to this point in the debate.
Mr President, I want to thank Mrs Redondo for her report and for her excellent explanation of what all this is about and why it is important.
One of the things that I miss from the information we were given is the cost of this operation or what the cost would be if every Member State involved themselves in it.
I do not suppose it is very big.
Nevertheless the information is necessary for a Parliament discussing the subject.
Of course, as the common agricultural policy develops from a situation in which we pay subsidies at the point of export or at the point of entry into intervention into a situation where we pay subsidies for individual animals on an acreage or the hectarage of crop planted, obviously it is extremely important that we know exactly how many animals there are in the Union, how many hectares and how many olive trees and all the rest of it. All that information is extremely important.
It is extremely regrettable if we, at European level, the institutions who organise the common agricultural policy on which the farmers of the Union depend for their livelihood, cannot obtain correct information on which to base an effective policy.
It is very hard to understand why we do not have better cooperation from all the Member States.
When we expand the European Union, or even without expansion, we will not retain all the provisions of the present policy.
Nevertheless, we will need this information so that we are able to extend some sort of assistance on a reasonable basis to the new countries of the Union where food production and agricultural production will increase by 50 per cent what we have in the Union today.
It is also advisable to remember that in the Court of Auditors' report, which has just come out and which was debated this week, we did not find in the whole agricultural sector any indication of massive racketeering or fraud on a large scale but we notice that there seem to be an awful lot of little problems with the number of livestock and the amount of hectarage for area aid and so on. There are small errors over a very wide area and that is a serious problem that we have to address.
Finally, I would say that in the new Europe it is going to be important for farmers to base their levels of production on the projected quantities that will be produced in the Union.
That cannot happen if we do not know the statistics of the agricultural industry.
Increasingly, rather than screaming at the institutions of Union to solve the problems, farmers will have to come together and try to calculate what the needs of the market are and produce for those needs.
That does not mean that we want to bring an end to subsidisation.
For example, there is the pigmeat industry where we produce 18 million tons of pigmeat annually and we end up in a situation where there is a million tons in surplus.
Prices collapse, there is terrible hardship and indeed terrible profiteering by middlemen.
If we had good statistics, we would be able to deal with a problem like that before it arose.
Mr President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, for this report and her excellent display of cooperation as chair of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development this autumn.
A viable system for statistics is an important basis for making good decisions. Statistics have to be comprehensive, reliable and consistent.
The report quite clearly explains the legal basis of statistics, especially in Amendments Nos 2 and 3, which specify the Community' s share of the advance.
Politically, the most important message is contained in Amendments Nos 4 and 5, which urges the practice of cross-tabulating subsidies received according to, inter alia, farm surface area.
This information will be especially important when we consider the social side of agricultural subsidies. It would be difficult to support a subsidy scheme that channelled most of the aid to the large farms in the best agricultural regions.
We have no data on this, but have to be content with the rumours that 80% of aid would go to 20% of farmers.
Amendment No 1 emphasised the importance of statistics in connection with enlargement towards the east.
This is a very important consideration that still means much work for the EU and the applicant countries. The problems over statistics for the applicant countries will not be resolved through this report.
Problems have continued since the land register began to function.
Embarking on eastward enlargement without any information on its effect on the budget would be political suicide.
It does not help much, though, if our current data on expenditure is based on mistaken or unreliable data.
The most important aspect of statistical data on the European farmer is the reference yield.
When Finland became a Member, as a result of poor yield in previous years, we had to be satisfied with a figure that did not reflect the truth in normal years.
These reference yields should be raised to a realistic level as soon as possible, or we should start to reconsider the whole basis of their use and the idea of a drop in the price of grain as compensation for hectarage aid.
We cannot undertake to subsidise producers in regions of highest yield in Europe for years and years on account of price reductions that have sometimes taken place in the past. The most obvious answer would be to harmonise hectarage aid as closely as possible within the whole territory of the EU.
Mr President, the ELDR group supports this report.
Mr President, rapporteur, everyone here agrees that we should highlight the need to have statistics for agriculture, at a Community level, that are as precise, as reliable and as coherent as possible, so that we can effectively assess the consequences of decisions taken under the CAP, particularly on rural areas.
European agriculture is not uniform. On the contrary, it is extremely diverse.
It is therefore essential that statistics are accurate enough in terms of land, and compiled in a harmonised way, for us to be able to obtain judicious analyses by production type and by ecosystem.
In 1996, the European Parliament adopted a report by Mr Jové Perez whose proposals aimed to make European statistics much more accurate and reliable.
Unfortunately, the Commission' s rather unambitious proposal that has been submitted to us has taken no account of it.
This is why we shall support all of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development as well as the one by Mr Jové Perez.
Indeed, it seems essential to us that the wealth of information stemming from the implementation of the CAP aid should be made use of as a source of statistics.
The cost to the Community budget would be almost nothing and statistical secrecy would be guaranteed through the data being incorporated.
This is the concern that led our group to table an amendment yesterday concerning the traceability of beef and veal because, as a result of the CAP aid, all animals in the European herd must be identified.
This applies to abattoirs, too, for reasons of food and animal safety.
I have not yet understood why the Commission has not accepted that, as of 1 January, these two facts, which have already been made compulsory across the Community, should be used to enable the operational start of traceability.
It is quite inconsistent to postpone the establishment of compulsory labelling of beef and veal for another year and, at the same time, to condemn France' s application of the precautionary principle, precisely because there is no such compulsory labelling.
If the free movement of products is not accompanied by rigorous labelling, consumers will think it is a confidence trick.
It is regrettable that Commissioner Byrne does not employ his zeal in the service of the health and the interest of European consumers.
Mr President, I too was under the impression that I would be talking about the regulation on hops but, since the issue of statistics has arisen, I feel it is my duty to address it.
As we all know, statistics often have different interpretations which can mean just what we want them to mean.
If this is the case, then inconsistent statistics will only exacerbate the problem.
This is why I also agree that statistics on the movement, policies and trade of agricultural products must be as consistent as possible. It would be ideal if each State did not, statistically at least, paint a different picture of our agricultural economy.
Then, despite any diverse interpretations, we would at least have one true common version of the facts which would help those wishing to examine in closer detail what those statistics actually represent.
I agree, therefore, that we should adopt the regulation, and I also agree with the comments on the amendments which have been made so that the Commission can see to it that the statistics paint as uniform and reliable a picture as possible.
Mr President, technical action plans were established for statistics in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999.
This is a sign of foresight, but it also shows that developments have been so rapid in recent years that standing still really means going backwards.
This area can justly be described by the phrase 'never finished, always on the way' .
The European Union ought, as quickly as possible, to be in possession of common statistical material which is comprehensive in all areas.
The Commission says that the Community' s agricultural statistics should continue to be adapted in the years 2000-2002.
This means that we are talking here about extending these.
If for a moment we look back to 1957 when the Treaty of Rome came into being, it was in fact the agricultural sphere which was the first big area upon which agreement was reached.
Today - nearly 43 years later - no completely satisfactory statistics have been established for this area.
The debate this week about the registration of animals showed very clearly that 12 out of 15 countries had not even begun preparations for this work.
Things are naturally interconnected.
Without registration, careful statistics cannot be kept and there are therefore, of course, opportunities for a series of errors regarding payments.
The Community makes contributions to offset the Member States' expenditure in connection with implementing the relevant arrangements.
It is therefore necessary that the Commission should now do some tightening up.
It cannot be the slowest countries which are to set the pace.
The Commission ought to set the agenda to a much greater degree and lead the Member States in accordance with the common resolutions.
How can we envisage re-establishing consumer confidence in food following all the scandals when the EU cannot even implement its own resolutions?
Food safety, risk assessment and the very concept of safety are such important areas that there is no avoiding them nowadays.
Allow me, therefore, quietly to ask: when are we to put our own house in order?
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to hesitate.
The future belongs to those who prepare themselves for it.
Mr President, a little while ago another speaker again brought up the fact that the compulsory labelling system for beef is not to be introduced until 1.1.2001.
I am able to inform you that the Council has obviously adopted our demand to introduce this system by 1.9.
This represents a small victory for the European Parliament as far as the timeframe is concerned.
However, it did not reach this decision under the codecision procedure.
This would have meant it also having to adopt all the other proposed amendments that we voted on here yesterday in the simplified procedure.
Then all our proposed amendments would have been adopted in the codecision procedure.
Instead of which, the Council decided, under the old regulation 820/97, in accordance with Article 19 of the implementing rules, that the Member States now have the facility to continue with the voluntary system until 1.9.2000. I do not consider this to be the right strategy either.
It does, however, go some way towards meeting European Parliament requirements.
Apart from that, we are now going to continue with the codecision procedure for the other proposed amendments, which we voted on yesterday, for this process will run on after 1.1.2000.
The Council must give its reaction to this.
If it fails to adopt our proposed amendments then we will become involved in a conciliation procedure.
All the other matters that we want to include in this regulation will therefore still be a matter for debate.
I hope that we will be able to persuade the Council to adopt our proposals in this area too, and that it allows reason to prevail.
Mr President, following the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty the proposals concerning statistics, including agricultural statistics, are based on Article 285.
It foresees adoption according to the codecision procedure.
The proposal submitted today for your approval is the first example insofar as agricultural statistics are concerned.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, for her excellent work and, in particular, for her cooperation with the Council and the Commission on this dossier.
The Commission is very pleased about the global support expressed in the report for the draft Council and Parliament decision.
The background is Council Decision 96/411(EC) on improving Community agricultural statistics. It has put at the Commission's disposal a flexible tool which allows it to adapt statistical applications to changes in information needs.
This has helped to adapt the system of Community agricultural statistics to changes in the common agricultural policy.
In its report to the European Parliament and the Council the Commission has presented an overview of the actions undertaken during the period 1996-1999 in different areas.
The overall assessment of these actions by the Commission is positive.
However, the process of adapting national statistical systems to the needs arising from the reform of the common agricultural policy has not yet been completed.
The Commission has therefore proposed to extend for a further three years, with some minor changes, the validity of Decision 96/411(EC). The changes are mainly aimed at either simplifying the implementation of this action programme or at reducing the delay for paying the Community contribution.
It is important to ensure that this new decision enters into force as soon as possible in order to avoid a vacuum in the present legislation.
An effort should be made to adopt this proposal after first reading.
As concerns Mrs Redondo Jiménez's report, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3. The Commission cannot, however, accept Amendment No 4, even in its new, modified version.
This amendment would still imply some new obligations for Member States which have not yet been discussed in the Council.
This would certainly prevent the adoption of the proposal in the Council at first reading. Nevertheless, the Commission agrees with the rapporteur that the additional information requested by this amendment would indeed be useful in order to have a better idea of the distribution of aid paid in the context of the common agricultural policy.
The Commission will therefore commit itself to include such actions in the next technical programmes, starting from 2001, in view of encouraging progress in this area.
We hope that this may reassure the European Parliament about our intentions and may lead Mrs Redondo Jiménez to withdraw this amendment in order to allow the proposal to be adopted at first reading.
Mr President, just a short comment on Amendment No 5.
Unfortunately, we are not able to accept Amendment No 5 because we know that the Council would not accept it.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
(Parliament approved the legislative resolution) EXPLANATION OF VOTE
Mr President, as the applause for the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, confirmed, this is one of the most important measures we have voted on.
Indeed, in my opinion, statistics are fundamental and in Italy we are in the most terrible chaos as regards the statistics on milk from our cows.
Therefore, I voted for the report and I would like to express the hope that statistics will also be gathered on the number of pensioners in the fifteen Member States.
Many people say there are too many of them, but I say there are too few: statistics will allow us to ascertain their number.
For my part, I would like there to be more and more of them, because 'it is great being a pensioner' .
COM in hops
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0083/1999) by Mr Xaver Mayer, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EEC) 1696/71 on the common organisation of the market in hops [COM(1999) 302 - C5­0081/1999 - 1999/0128(CNS)].
Mr Mayer, I trust that after the sitting you will offer us a tasting.
Mr President, I sent an invite for a beer-tasting session about three weeks ago and it was very much to the taste of all those that received and took up the invitation.
I have no doubt, Mr Mayer.
Mr President, I simply wish to thank and congratulate Mr Mayer on the report he has carried out, which affects all the hop-producing countries of the Community and which, in the case of Spain, affects my region, Castilla-León, in the León area.
I agree with everything Mr Mayer has said.
The report has been unanimously approved in the Committee on Agriculture.
I congratulate Mr Mayer and I hope that he receives the support of this Parliament.
Mr President, Mr Mayer was so charming that I would like to extend the offer by suggesting that we have that beer in Bavaria itself, not here.
I shall now come to the point.
Hops are not a typical enough example for us to understand the importance of the common agricultural policy for farmers in the European Union. They do, however, show the extent to which it actually helps our farmers.
As Mr Mayer said, hops are a traditional product which is particularly important to the quality of beer produced, although production is very limited; some 4 000 hectares of land throughout the whole of Europe.
Yet a sufficient number of farming families in the countries where hops are produced, particularly in Bavaria, make their living from that product alone. These families should not be left to the mercy of continual price falls, neither should they be forced to desert specific rural areas because of difficulties arising from irregularities within the market.
There have been a number of changes to the main regulation relating to this particular product as a result of the market fluctuations and the changing needs of farmers, the most recent being the Council decision to set a uniform level of aid to producers for a period of five years.
This latest decision alters the obligations of the Commission arising from the previous regime, that is of having to grant annual aid, and Members States no longer need to grant aid for setting up production teams.
This development means that certain articles of the old regulation need to be revoked which, rightly so, is carried out in the new regulation for which we will be voting, together with Mr Mayer' s amendments, noting that the proposed regulation will not in any way affect the budget.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report. I can inform you that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will support the report when it is put to the vote.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I first of all want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Xaver Mayer, for a valuable report - and perhaps especially for his enthusiastic presentation of the hop paradise of Bavaria - together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for its constructive attitude.
I am very pleased that our proposal for changing the way in which the market for hops is organised has met with a positive reception.
The Commission' s proposal is, of course, aimed at removing those stipulations which are no longer valid, either because deadlines have run out or because of previous changes to the common regime under which hops are organised.
These changes must be implemented before the basic regulation is consolidated.
Owing to the fact that the Council has resolved that the level of support is to remain constant for a period of five years, the Commission does not consider that it is necessary to submit a report every year on the situation concerning the production and marketing of hops.
The Commission therefore considers that Article 11 can be removed.
According to Article 18 of the proposal, we shall, however, be presenting, by 1 September 2000, a thorough assessment of the situation regarding the production and marketing of hops.
I am therefore afraid that the European Parliament' s two amendments complicate the text unnecessarily and that the requirement to receive information each year is already covered by the new proposal. This information will also be made available on the Internet.
That is why the Commission cannot adopt these amendments in this situation.
Mr President, firstly, I would be pleased to invite the Commissioner to Kloster Andechs in Bavaria, a place where seven different types of beer are brewed...
Secondly, I would like to make it known that next ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, before leaving for Strasbourg, the pensioners who took me to the airport asked me "Is there going to be a debate about beer on Friday morning?"
I replied "Yes, certainly."
"Well, you have to give an explanation of vote and say that we pensioners are in favour of the production and development of beer."
We are in favour not just because ten years ago, the Pensioners' Party put forward as candidate for Rome' s mayor the model Solveig Tubing, who was born in Berlin and was a great connoisseur and lover of beer, but also because my own personal studies on beer show that drinking it makes you younger.
I know that welfare institutions and governments are against developing beer, because this means that they have to pay out pensions for longer, but as representative of the Pensioners' Party, I am in favour.
Extension of exceptional financial assistance to Tajikistan
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0093/1999) by Mr Savary, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council decision modifying Decision 97/787/EC granting exceptional financial assistance to Armenia and Georgia in order to extend it to Tajikistan [COM(1999) 391 - C5­0171/1999 - 1999/0172(CNS)].
Mr President, I thought, since I represent the Bordeaux area, that you were giving me the floor so that I could answer my Bavarian colleague on the subject of Bordeaux wine.
However, it seems that you are asking me to speak on Tajikistan instead and, as I have five minutes, I shall try to be as clear as possible about an issue that is perhaps rather esoteric and complicated.
It concerns exceptional aid to Tajikistan which is, as you know, a small country located between Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, China and Afghanistan.
There is a history to this issue and really what I would like to do today is to close a subject that began in 1991 with a loan of EUR 1200 million to the Newly Independent States when the Soviet Union collapsed.
The loan has been repaid by all of the States apart from three.
In 1997, three States were experiencing difficulties and were seriously behind in their repayments: Georgia, Armenia and Tajikistan.
Thus the Parliament was informed in 1997 of a proposal by the Commission, which aimed to reschedule and restructure these three countries' debts.
It was therefore decided to put in place two types of financial assistance. On the one hand there would be loans - at the time EUR 245 million had been earmarked for loans to these three countries - and on the other hand, a gift of EUR 130 million, whose main objective was to reduce the burden of debt and to improve the ability of these countries to repay.
1997 was also marked, and this is the crux of the issue, by a civil war in Tajikistan, a terrible civil war between the reigning power and the Islamic opposition.
Parliament then proposed, on the basis of Mr Kittelmann' s report, to defer aid to Tajikistan and that is why, two years later, now that the situation has returned to normal, we are being asked today to reopen the matter.
In fact, although the situation in Tajikistan has remained highly critical and worrying, in terms of politics as well as economics, it has gradually become more stable.
There has been an agreement between the different parties, which has been implemented and universally respected, even if security in the country is still subject to caution due to the presence of warlords and the powerful wave of Wahabi fundamentalism in Afghanistan.
In terms of economics, the country has made great efforts under the auspices of the IMF and is benefiting from a structural adjustment facility provided by that organisation.
We, the European Union, are therefore being asked to re-establish contact with Tajikistan and to implement a restructuring of the debt as today, around EUR 73 million is still outstanding.
What the Commission is proposing is actually to repeat what was done for Georgia and Armenia, which was to make provision for a new loan which would enable Tajikistan to repay the previous one but on much more favourable terms in order to give this country some breathing space, and to make provision for a gift of EUR 35 million for the period 2000-2004, in order to reduce the burden of debt.
Unfortunately, I have to say that the Commission' s proposal is extremely contradictory.
We are in fact being asked to make a loan of EUR 75 million and a gift of EUR 35 million and now we see that no more budgetary funds are available for donations and that, in 1999, we only budgeted for the donations granted to Armenia and Georgia, donations which are due to end in 2001.
As a result and quite logically, we, the Committee on Industry, within whose competence this matter essentially falls, have been told by the Committee on Budgets that under no circumstances could we endorse donations which have not been budgeted for today and which have not been provided for in the financial perspective, particularly in Category 4, which, as you know, is already under pressure through trying to finance Kosovo.
Therefore, the compromise which we have reached with the Committee on Budgets consists effectively of only keeping the loan of EUR 75 million whilst agreeing - a position of the Committee on Industry which I think has been understood by the Committee on Budgets - that Tajikistan should also be able to benefit from supplementary aid in order to reduce the monthly debt repayment of EUR 200 000 which it cannot afford.
Tajikistan is, in fact, the poorest of the Newly Independent States and the one that we absolutely have to stabilise because, rather like Chechnya and for other reasons besides, it is a country that could endanger the whole region, particularly because of its strategic position with regard to Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, which are very rich countries.
We have consequently tabled a series of amendments.
Firstly, amendments that endorse the donation; then amendments which point out to the Council and the Commission their contradictions by telling them that it would be desirable to grant direct aid, but by financing it under another line, and here I am thinking of TACIS; and finally, amendments concerning conditions: monitoring the way the funds are used, the political and democratic conditions and the monitoring of the Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, Tajikistan is not only the poorest of all the countries formed from the Soviet Union, it has also been the one to suffer the most on account of the turmoil caused by tribal feuding, which ultimately escalated into civil war.
The country failed to grasp how to employ the financial aid provided so far in a targeted manner.
The situation has only calmed down to some extent over the last few months, once the warring parties had ceased hostilities and resolved that their next step would be to form a coalition government.
General free elections are set for March 2000.
The international donor community, which includes Swiss organisations for the most part, is now prepared to carry on where it left off delivering financial aid, but with certain provisos.
Now that the situation has abated and there are more favourable prospects for future progress overall, the Savary report now attempts to provide renewed support for the macroeconomic financial aid for this country in the form of loans.
We hope that this will make it sufficiently clear to Tajikistan that it needs to improve its state machinery by embracing democratic development and undertaking the necessary reforms.
However, the financial aid in the form of loans should only be granted if there is a real possibility of the European Union being able to properly monitor the situation, if the process of national reconciliation continues and the elections, in particular the parliamentary elections set for March, are free and democratic.
As Mr Savary rightly said, this is also what we aim to achieve with proposed Amendments Nos 8 and 9, to which we give our unequivocal support.
If Tajikistan' s creditworthiness is to be restored, then the proposal in Budget 2000 is also to be welcomed. The rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, has just confirmed to me that as far as this is concerned, a commentary is to provide for a particular form of financial aid to be made available again under the TACIS programme.
On a final note, I would like to say that the PPE group supports this report notwithstanding all the associated risks.
It represents a renewed, hopefully successful attempt to resume and promote economic and technical cooperation with Tajikistan.
Mr President, the loan which Tajikistan will receive equals this small and poor country' s share in an outstanding debt to the former Soviet Union.
As such, this will not solve any problems within Tajikistan.
The loan only prevents the outstanding debts from continuing to exist.
Central Asia, the majority of whose population is Turkish-speaking and a small part of which is Iranian-speaking, was conquered in the previous century by the Russian tsarist empire.
This empire did not look for colonies far from home or overseas, like most Western European States, but close by.
Although they were decolonised in 1922, they have remained linked to Russia in the form of Federal States of the Soviet Union.
The boundaries drawn by Stalin between the various linguistic and cultural regions in the ' 20s and ' 30s are now state borders.
This prolonged European influence means that we in the European Union should feel especially responsible for the vicissitudes of the five States which appeared after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
The economy and environment are in a sad state of affairs in all fifteen States.
Authoritarian regimes have come to power and leave little or no scope for political opponents.
By means of referendums and intimidation, some presidents have their periods of office extended by ten years, without there being rival candidates.
In this respect, Tajikistan is no exception.
Should European money be spent on a country like this?
In general, my group is not in favour of funding undemocratic regimes.
All too often, we have noticed that they receive funding in the expectation that they will regard this money as a reward for taking small steps towards greater democracy and human rights and as an encouragement to take further such steps.
In practice, however, this method does not work, as we have since found out in Turkey and Russia.
The funding is received, but the situation does not improve.
With the collapse of the Soviet Union, Tajikistan has reverted to the situation in the nineteenth and at the beginning of the twentieth century.
There are several, regionally powerful families and groups which are fighting each other in a situation where warlords seize upon political and religious differences as an excuse to justify armed action.
The fate of Tajikistan largely depends upon what is happening in its immediate surroundings, such as the hopeless, violent conflict in Afghanistan.
A large proportion of the Tajikistani population lives in north-east Afghanistan, the area which is not in the hands of the Taliban.
The North of Tajikistan stretches out as far as the densely populated Fergana Valley which is partly located in Uzbekistan and is completely integrated into the economy and road network of this neighbouring country.
As a frontline area flanked, on the one hand, by the Russian sphere of influence and, on the other hand, by Islamic fundamentalism in Afghanistan, the present Tajikistani State has little chance of survival.
The only reason to inject European funding into Tajikistan despite all this is that funding increases the chance of survival of the Tajikistani population and offers more chance of peace than there would be without such aid.
This is the reason why my group can nevertheless agree with the proposals made in the Savary report.
Mr President, for our part, we will not be voting for the Savary report.
This is both for reasons concerning the choice of this country and out of more general considerations involving financial aid.
Although, of course, we have nothing against the sovereign State of Tajikistan, we nevertheless do not think that European States should drop their priorities, or to be more precise, the priority that they set a long time ago on the subject of cooperation.
This priority has now been in force for more than a quarter of a century through the Lomé Agreements.
For obvious reasons, which concern history as well as geography, Europeans felt it necessary to embark, throughout the 1970s, on a major course of cooperation with the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific in a way which is, moreover, highly original, known as the Lomé Agreements, which enable us to offer our Southern partners the benefits of stable prices for the produce which constitute their essential resources, protecting them from all-out free trade. Today we see only too well how this ruins the weakest economies.
Now under the battering, not from globalisation but from the globalist ideology, which European countries have accepted without closer examination, we have seen the ACP agreements being slowly dismantled over several years, their basic principles denied and, above all, we have seen reductions in several European countries' contributions to the EDF.
Now, at the same time, so-called exceptional financial aid to the most diverse countries in the world is multiplying, without any overall plan emerging, which means that our cooperation policy is nothing but a vague, huge scratching of the surface or, to sum it up, it is no longer a policy at all.
To this particular consideration we can add a second.
Tajikistan may have been spared the economic problems described in the report, moreover like so many other countries in the world, but it is nevertheless the victim of an ill-considered opening up of its borders and of the huge game waged by empires.
For our part, the best solution we can see would be to restore a new world trade order, which respects the sovereignty of States, their pace and their modes of development, and which also respects their traditions, traditions which we will not be able to make vanish with a wave of a magic wand just by imposing an election, human rights and what we quite hastily call democracy.
Mr President, the political tide in Tajikistan seems to be turning.
Only last week, President Ragmanov called for parliamentary elections to be held next spring.
After months of tug-of-war between the government and the opposition, agreement has finally been reached regarding the new electoral law.
I should point out, however, that these developments mark only the beginning of the democratisation process.
Tajikistan still shows features which are incompatible with a democratic constitutional state.
Indeed, the downside of the present positive developments is that during the next elections, a number of parties will remain on the sidelines.
They are excluded from participating.
This is hardly surprising as permission to participate in elections is still in the hands of former communists.
This remark regarding Tajikistan' s democratic status does not detract from the fact that quite a few changes have already taken place.
As such, international organisations and bilateral donors no longer see good reason for suspending aid to Tajikistan.
Even the European Commission, with the proposal it is making, seems to think it should put its oar in.
However, the Commission is losing sight of one important factor.
Earlier this year, the three institutions of the European Union concluded the interinstitutional agreement for a period of seven years, stipulating the financial ceilings for the various policy areas.
I would like to remind the Commission of this.
In the proposal to grant aid to Tajikistan, this agreement is not given much consideration.
Neither the urgent appeal by the IMF and World Bank to the European Union to increase aid to Tajikistan nor the argument of moral duty in the light of Tajikistan' s debts to the Union are in themselves good enough reasons to grant aid.
We are first of all faced with the European Union' s financial limitations.
The above agreement does not allow for making gifts to Tajikistan.
Moreover, we have recent experiences of entering into financial commitments which we cannot honour, as illustrated in the reconstruction of Kosovo.
The Commission has pledged a sum of EUR 500 million while the Member States do not want to make the necessary increase in the European budget at this stage.
A vague declaration of intent has since been drafted by the Council to prevent similar problems from occurring in future, but it remains to be seen what will come of this.
Kosovo is no better off at the moment.
Aid has been reduced to EUR 360 million and also spread over several years.
This incident has given me grave concerns regarding the Member States' willingness to make concessions once again within the context of aid to Tajikistan, even if only relatively small amounts are involved.
Member States find it hard to sell the idea within their own countries if the outcome of the negotiations at the Berlin Summit are undermined by reality.
Apart from a limited budget, the European Union has little political interest in Tajikistan.
The geographical remoteness makes it impossible to have any real influence on the democratisation process.
Although the European Union has an interest in being surrounded by large, stable regions, the tools it has available in order to achieve this are still very limited.
All this does not mean that we cannot do anything at all for Tajikistan.
On humanitarian grounds, I do agree with special aid as far as the loan component is concerned, but the gift component should be scrapped for the reasons I have outlined above.
I would also like to urge the Commission to ask Tajikistan' s bilateral donors and the Member States to grant special aid to this country on an individual basis.
After all, the scope of the budget of the national Member States is, politically speaking, less of a sensitive issue.
Finally, I would like to strongly advise the Commission, out of moral considerations, to resume the projects under TACIS for Tajikistan as soon as possible.
In this respect, we have to monitor the situation closely in order to ensure that the money ends up where it is needed, namely with the Tajikistani population, which is suffering under grinding poverty.
Mr President, were it not for the people of Tajikistan I would not be standing here today.
During the First World War, in 1916, my grandfather was a prisoner of war working on the railways in what used to be Russia-Central Asia, and he has often told me that he was only able to survive these difficult years on account of the hospitality and helpfulness of the people of Tajikistan.
But this is not why I am so keen to support Tajikistan' s cause, rather, unlike Mr Blokland, I believe that it is an issue that is of direct concern to us.
Tajikistan is situated in an area enclosed by China and Russia, which are at odds in this region, and by the Islamic world and the Caspian Sea, where there are immense deposits of raw materials.
In my view, this region represents the Balkans of the future, a Balkans in microcosm, and that is why it is in our vital interest, particularly as a number of nuclear powers are established there, to stabilise this region and prevent ethnic conflicts taking place there from having an impact on the entire world.
That is why I believe that we need to help Tajikistan on its difficult way ahead by providing it with a loan, but also with outright grants, it being clear, in this respect, that we will have to call upon the Member States as our own budget will not accommodate this.
Of course, we must demand democracy and the rule of law but, at the same time, we must not apply uncalled-for standards.
For centuries, Tajikistan was subjected to colonial exploitation and for eighty years it was brutally suppressed by Soviet Communism.
Today this small mountain race is making its way with difficulty and must not be made subject to European standards.
We must apply the same standards that we apply to developing countries; after all, we have been supporting the countries of Africa on the road to democracy for decades now, and the situation there still leaves much to be desired.
We have only been supporting Tajikistan for a few years now.
Therefore, whilst we must demand certain rules of the game, we must also be patient towards the people of Tajikistan, heavily promote the elections to take place in the spring and recognise that this is not just an act that will do honour to Europe, rather it is in Europe' s own best interests to bring peace to this region.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a warm thank you to rapporteur Savary.
The Commission is very pleased to note that its proposal to grant exceptional financial aid to Tajikistan has obtained wholehearted support from Parliament' s relevant committee.
The Commission is supporting quite a lot of the proposed amendments, especially those relating to stricter Budget supervision (given the possibility of retrograde political developments in the country) and is also supporting the proposal that a final report should be delivered to Parliament in the year 2004.
The Commission cannot, however, accept the proposals regarding that part of the aid relating to subsidies.
It is impossible to implement this part relating to subsidies on existing legal bases, especially TACIS, because the resources included in the aid cannot be related to special projects or programmes.
The aim is in fact to reduce the country' s debt towards the Community.
This proposal is also aimed at confirming the subsidy of EUR 95 million available to Armenia and Georgia in accordance with Council Decision 97/787/EC of 17 November 1997.
The Commission finds it difficult to accept a reduction of the subsidy to EUR 50 million. The reasons for this are as follows.
The Community' s financial exposure will continue to be high in an area whose stability has deteriorated, both because of the Russian financial crisis and the current situation in the northern Caucasus.
A significant reduction in the EU' s exposure has already been achieved, with the figure concerned going down from EUR 212 million initially, including interest on outstanding debts, to EUR 123 million at present.
A further reduction may, however, occur over the next few years if the aid is implemented as planned.
Armenia and Georgia will have difficulty understanding the fact that the Community is reducing its aid, in spite of the major efforts which these two countries, with support from the IMF and other contributors, have made to reduce their financial liabilities towards the Community.
This would put the Community in a difficult situation regarding both these two countries and the international community.
The Commission considers that it would be unfortunate if the Community were to refuse to confirm its financial aid to countries whose strategic importance to the Community is obvious.
Moreover, we ought, in the light of the present difficulties in the Caucasus, to send out political signals indicating that we want to continue to support the considerable efforts which are being made to achieve stabilisation and democracy, as well as to introduce reforms.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
Following the vote on the amendments
Mr President, after the voting, I would like to raise a point of order concerning the texts adopted yesterday.
If you would allow me, I would like to take up a few minutes after the votes.
You may do so.
(Parliament approved the legislative resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
Mr President, I would like to say how pleased I am to give this last explanation of vote of 1999 on the Savary report, which I voted for.
I am very much in favour of this European Community initiative which aims to grant practical aid to the most deserving regions, such as Tajikistan.
I would like, as Mr Blokland said in his statement, to say to Commissioner Wallström - who is disturbing the sleep of Italian, Greek and Spanish pensioners because of superannuated cars which have to be quickly taken off the roads - that I would appreciate verification as to how the aid is distributed once it has been granted to Tajikistan and other States.
I would be pleased if it was given to people who need it, such as pensioners.
Mr President, despite having some serious concerns, I voted in favour of the financial aid package because I see in it an opportunity to establish a market economy, democracy and peace using financial incentives, of the kind put forward by Mr Karas, rather than force.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to all those fellow MEPs who gave me their support in this and would like to wish you all a merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
Mr President, very briefly on a point of order regarding the texts adopted yesterday.
During the debate, I was watching what exactly was written down regarding the vote for the Murphy report on late payment.
I would like to ask you to get your department to look at Amendment No 20 again, as I am 99.9% certain that this is not the text we voted on or at any rate not the text which should have been submitted because this is not what the Industry Committee provided.
I have asked to be given the floor officially because I fear that we will be unable to reach the departments during the Christmas break and in order to avoid problems during the conciliation procedure.
Thank you very much, Mrs Thyssen.
We will make the appropriate checks because, evidently, the Minutes have been approved; therefore, there will have to be a technical correction where appropriate.
Mr President, I do not know if this is a technical correction, but I have just discovered that I am not included in the Members from Luxembourg in Wednesday' s Minutes, concerning Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi' s report on the verification of credentials.
Mrs Reding' s name is there instead.
I know that I owe my seat to her being appointed a Commissioner but I do not understand, since I have been a Member of this Parliament since 16 September, why my name does not feature in the Minutes covering the verification of credentials.
Would you please rectify this?
Mrs Lulling, I cannot rectify this because this report does not affect you.
You were elected on 16 September - as you quite rightly said - and this report concerns those who were elected on 13 June.
You replaced Mrs Reding.
There will therefore be another report, which will, I hope, confirm your mandate.
Mr President, as it is now Christmas, I would be grateful if you would allow me to speak for a moment.
I would like to thank you and clear up a misunderstanding.
The President is entitled to allow an MEP to ask a question of the Commission.
I wanted to ask the Commissioner a question and also answer a question that you asked of Mr Mayer. I wanted to say that in the spring there will be a large beer-tasting session for Bavarian beer in the Parliament courtyard here in Strasbourg.
Mr Posselt, I am very pleased, but in any case, I would remind you that, when requesting a procedural motion, you actually have to indicate the Rule to which you are referring.
Having said that, Parliament has reached the end of the agenda.
The Minutes of the present sitting will be subject to Parliament' s approval at the beginning of the next part-session.
Mr Manders has the floor for a procedural motion.
Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you, the Bureau and all Members, a good transition into the new year.
Ladies and gentlemen, before you leave me alone, I would like on behalf of the Bureau, once again, to thank all the Members, all the services, officials, assistants and other co-workers and, if you will allow me - although all the co-workers work for us - perhaps a special mention should go to the language services which help us to understand each other here.
I would also like, although they are absent, to mention the Commission and the Council.
I am not going to re-open the 'Millennium or not the Millennium' debate, but I am going to wish all of you, and by extension, all the citizens of Europe which we represent, a happy year 2000.
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
(The sitting was closed at 10.50 a.m.)
